

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Expected-Time Cryptography: Generic Techniques and Applications to Concrete Soundness‹

Joseph Jaeger and Stefano Tessaro

Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering University of Washington, Seattle, US {jsjaeger,tessaro}@cs.washington.edu

Abstract. This paper studies concrete security with respect to expected-time adversaries. Our first contribution is a set of generic tools to obtain tight bounds on the advantage of an adversary with expected-time guarantees. We apply these tools to derive bounds in the random-oracle and genericgroup models, which we show to be tight.

As our second contribution, we use these results to derive concrete bounds on the soundness of publiccoin proofs and arguments of knowledge. Under the lens of concrete security, we revisit a paradigm by Bootle at al. (EUROCRYPT '16) that proposes a general Forking Lemma for multi-round protocols which implements a rewinding strategy with expected-time guarantees. We give a tighter analysis, as well as a modular statement. We adopt this to obtain the first quantitative bounds on the soundness of Bulletproofs (B¨unz et al., S&P 2018), which we instantiate with our expected-time generic-group analysis to surface inherent dependence between the concrete security and the statement to be proved.

Keywords: concrete security, proof systems

## 1 Introduction

Cryptography usually adopts a worst-case angle on complexity. For example, in the context of concrete security, a typical theorem shows that an adversary running for at most t steps succeeds with advantage at most ε. In this paper, we instead study the concrete security of cryptographic schemes and assumptions as a function of the expected running time of the adversary.

Expected-time complexity is a natural measure in its own right – e.g., it is very common in cryptanalysis, as it is often much easier to analyze. But it is also a useful technical tool – indeed, simulators and extractors are often expected time, sometimes inherently so [\[1\]](#page-27-0). To use these technical tools, we need assumptions to hold with respect to expected time.

The problem has been studied closely by Katz and Lindell [\[15\]](#page-28-0), who also suggest expected-time adversaries as a natural model, which however also comes with several technical challenges. Either way, the resulting common wisdom is that assumptions which are true with respect to (non-uniform) worst-case polynomial time are true for expected polynomial-time, and often more fine-grained statements are possible via Markov's inequality (see below). However, for concrete security, such generic argument fail to give tight bounds.

Summary of contributions. This paper makes progress on two fronts.

First, as our main technical contribution, we introduce general tools to give tight concrete security bounds in information-theoretic settings (e.g., in the random-oracle or generic-group models) for expected-time adversaries. Our tools can easily translate many existing proofs from the worst-case to the expected-time regime. We derive for example tight bounds for finding collisions in a random oracle, for the PRF security of random oracles, and for computing discrete logarithms in the generic-group model. We also obtain bounds for the security of key-alternating ciphers against expected-time adversaries.

Second, we study a "Forking Lemma" to prove soundness of multi-round public-coin proofs and arguments (of knowledge) satisfying a generalized notion of special soundness, enabling witness extraction from a suitable tree of accepting interactions. In particular, we follow a blueprint by Bootle et al. [\[6\]](#page-27-1), which has also been

<sup>‹</sup> A preliminary version of this paper appears in the proceedings of TCC 2020. This is the full version.

{1}------------------------------------------------

adopted by follow-up works [28,7,8]. In contrast to prior works, we provide a concrete analysis of the resulting expected-time witness extraction strategy, and also give a modular treatment of the techniques which may be of independent interest.

We showcase these tools by deriving concrete bounds for the soundness of Bulletproofs [7] in terms of the expected-time hardness of solving the discrete logarithm problem. Instantiating the bound with our generic-group model analysis will in particular illustrate the dependence of soundness on group parameters and on the complexity of the statement to be proved. We are unaware of any such result having been proved, despite the practical appeal of these protocols.

The remainder of this introduction provides a detailed overview of our results.

### 1.1 Information-Theoretic Bounds for Expected-Time Adversaries

Our first contribution is a framework to prove tight bounds with respect to expected-time adversaries. We focus on *information-theoretic analyses*, such as those in the random oracle [3] and the generic group [26,19] models.

Our focus on tight bounds is what makes the problem hard. Indeed, one can usually obtain a non-tight bound using Markov's inequality. For example, the probability  $\varepsilon(T, N)$  of a T-time adversary finding a collision in a random oracle with N outputs satisfies  $\varepsilon(T, N) \leq T^2/2N$ , and this bound is tight. If we instead aim to upper bound the probability  $\varepsilon(\mu_T, N)$  of finding a collision for an adversary that runs in expected time  $\mu_T = \mathsf{E}[T]$ , Markov's inequality yields, for every  $T^* > \mu_T$ ,

<span id="page-1-0"></span>
$$\varepsilon(\mu_T, N) \leqslant \Pr[T > T^*] + \frac{(T^*)^2}{2N} \leqslant \frac{\mu_T}{T^*} + \frac{(T^*)^2}{2N} \leqslant 2 \cdot \sqrt[3]{\frac{\mu_T^2}{2N}},$$
 (1)

where the right-most inequality is the result of setting  $T^*$  such that  $\frac{\mu_T}{T^*} = \frac{(T^*)^2}{2N}$ . Here, we prove the better upper bound

<span id="page-1-1"></span>
$$\varepsilon(\mu_T, N) \leqslant \sqrt{\frac{\mu_T^2}{2N}} \,,$$
(2)

as a corollary of the techniques we introduce below. This bound is tight: To see this, take an adversary which initially flips a biased coin, which is heads with probability  $\mu_T/\sqrt{N}$ . If the coin is tails, it aborts, failing to find a collision. If the coin is heads, it makes  $\sqrt{N}$  queries to find a collision with high probability. Then, this adversary succeeds with probability  $\Omega(\mu_T/\sqrt{N}) = \Omega(\sqrt{\mu_T^2/N})$ , and its expected run time is  $\mu_T$ .

Both (1) and (2) show that  $\mu_T \ge \Omega(\sqrt{N})$  must hold to find a collision with probability one. However, exact probability bounds are important in the regime  $\mu_T = o(\sqrt{N})$ . For example, say we are asked to find a collision in at least one out of u independent random oracles, and the expected number of queries to each is  $\mu_T$ . Then, a hybrid argument bounds the probability by  $u \cdot \varepsilon(\mu_T, N)$ , making the difference between a square-root and a cube-root bound on  $\varepsilon(\mu_T, N)$  important.

A GENERIC APPROACH FOR BAD-FLAG ANALYSES. We aim for a general approach to transform information-theoretic bounds for worst-case query complexity into bounds with respect to *expected* query complexity. If an existing analysis (with respect to worst-case complexity) follows a certain pattern, then we easily obtain an expected query complexity bound.

More concretely, many security proofs follow the "equivalent-until-bad" format (as formalized by Bellare and Rogaway [4], but equivalent formulations can be derived from the works of Maurer [18] and Shoup [27]). The goal here is to upper bound the advantage of an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  distinguishing two games  $\mathsf{G}_0$  and  $\mathsf{G}_1$ , which behave *identically* until some bad flag bad is set. Then, the distinguishing advantage is upper bounded by the probability of setting bad to true – an event we denote as  $\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}$ . Typically,  $\mathsf{G}_0$  is the "real world" and  $\mathsf{G}_1$  is the "ideal world". Now, let  $Q_1$  be the number of queries by an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  in  $\mathsf{G}_1$ , which is a random variable. Then, we say that this game pair satisfies  $\delta$ -boundedness if

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}} \mid Q_1 = q\right] \leqslant \delta(q)$$

{2}------------------------------------------------

for all  $q \ge 1$  and adversaries  $\mathcal{A}$ . This condition is not without loss of generality, but it can be ensured in all examples we verified.

Our first main theorem (Theorem 1) shows that if  $\delta(q) = \Delta \cdot q^d/N$ , then the probability of setting BAD<sup>A</sup> (in either of the two games), and hence the advantage of distinguishing  $G_0$  and  $G_1$ , is upper bounded as

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}\right] \leqslant 5 \cdot \left(\frac{\varDelta \mathsf{E}[Q_0]^d}{N}\right)^{1/d} \; ,$$

where (quite) crucially  $Q_0$  is the number of queries of  $\mathcal{A}$  in  $\mathsf{G}_0$ . This asymmetry matters in applications - we typically measure complexity in the *real world*, but  $\delta$ -boundedness only holds in the ideal world.

PROOF IDEA. The key step behind the proof of Theorem 1 is the introduction of an early-terminating adversary  $\mathcal{B}$ , which behaves as  $\mathcal{A}$  in attempting to set bad, but aborts early after  $U = \left\lfloor \sqrt[d]{Nu/\Delta} \right\rfloor = \Theta(\sqrt[d]{N/\Delta})$  queries, where  $u = 2^{-d}$ . One can then show that (we can think of the following probabilities in  $G_0$ )

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}\right] \leqslant \Pr\left[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}\right] + \Pr\left[Q_0 > U\right] ,$$

because  $\Pr\left[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}} \wedge Q_0 \leqslant U\right] \leqslant \Pr\left[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}\right]$ . Markov's inequality then yields

$$\Pr\left[Q_0 > U\right] \leqslant \frac{\mathsf{E}\left[Q_0\right]}{U} = \Theta\left(\sqrt[d]{\Delta\mathsf{E}\left[Q_0\right]^d/N}\right) \;,$$

which is of the right order.

Therefore, the core of the proof is to show  $\Pr\left[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}\right] = O\left(\sqrt[d]{\Delta\mathsf{E}\left[Q_0\right]^d/N}\right)$ . This will require using  $\delta$ -boundedness first, but a careful reader may observe that this will only upper bound the probability with respect to  $\mathsf{E}\left[Q_1\right]$ , and not  $\mathsf{E}\left[Q_0\right]$ . The bulk of the proof is then to switch between the two.

EXAMPLES. We apply the above framework to a few examples, to show its applicability. We show bounds on the hardness of discrete logarithms in the generic-group model [26,19], and on the collision-resistance and PRF security of random oracles. In particular, our framework also works for notions which are not indistinguishability based, such as collision-resistance of a random oracle, by introducing a suitable world  $\mathsf{G}_1$  where it is hard to win the game.

THE H-Coefficient method. Equivalent-until-bad analyses are not always the simplest way to prove security (despite the fact that in principle every analysis can be cast in this format, as shown in [20]). We also give a variant of the above approach tailored at proving security in a simpler version of the H-coefficient method [23,10] which considers what is referred to as pointwise-proximity in [14]. This amounts to using the standard H-coefficient method without bad transcripts. (To the best of our knowledge, this simpler version of the method is due to Bernstein [5].) This allows us to obtain expect-time versions of security bounds for the PRF/PRP switching lemma and for key-alternating ciphers, the latter building on top of work by Hoang and Tessaro [14]. We provide the details of this in Section 4.

#### 1.2 Forking Lemmas and Concrete Soundness

One motivation for studying expected-time adversaries is as a *tool* to prove bounds for worst-case complexity, rather than as a goal on itself. We expose here one such application in the context of proving *soundness* bounds for public-coin proofs/arguments (of knowledge). In particular, soundness/proof-of-knowledge proofs for several protocols (like [6,28,7,8]) rely on generalizations of the Forking Lemma (originally proposed by Pointcheval and Stern [25] for three-round protocols) which adopt expected-time witness extraction strategies. These have only been analyzed in an asymptotic sense, and our goal is to give a concrete-security treatment. We propose here a modular treatment of these techniques, and instantiate our framework to provide concrete bounds on the soundness of Bulletproofs [7], a succinct proof system which has enjoyed wide popularity.

{3}------------------------------------------------

Forking Lemmas. Pointcheval and Stern's original "Forking Lemma" [\[25\]](#page-28-11) deals with Σ-protocols that satisfy special soundness - these are three-round protocols, where a transcript takes the form pa, c, dq, with c being the verifier's single random challenge. Here, given common input x, the prover P proves knowledge to V of a witness w for a relation R. The proof of knowledge property is proved by giving an extractor B which produces a witness for x given (black-box) access to a prover P ˚ – if P ˚ succeeds with probability ε, then B succeeds with probability (roughly) ε 2 . Concretely, B simulates an execution of P ˚ with a random challenge c, which results in a transcript pa, c, dq, and then rewinds P ˚ to just before obtaining c, and feeds a different challenge c 1 to obtain a transcript pa, c<sup>1</sup> , d<sup>1</sup> q. If both transcripts are accepting, and c ‰ c 1 , a witness can be extracted via special soundness. Bellare and Neven [\[2\]](#page-27-6) give alternative Forking Lemmas where B's success probability approaches ε, at the cost of a larger running time.

Expected-time extraction. It is natural to expect that the success probability of B above degrades exponentially in the number of required accepting transcripts. Crucially, however, one can make the Forking Lemma tight with respect to probability if we relax B to have bounded expected running time. Now, B runs P ˚ once with a random challenge c and, if it generates a valid transcript pa, c, dq, we rewind P ˚ to before receiving the challenge c, and keep re-running it from there with fresh challenges until we obtain a second valid transcript pa, c<sup>1</sup> , d<sup>1</sup> q for c ‰ c 1 . The expected running time is only twice that of P ˚.

A general Forking Lemma. An extension of this idea underlies the analysis of recent succinct publiccoin multi-round interactive arguments of knowledge [\[6](#page-27-1)[,28,](#page-28-1)[7,](#page-27-2)[8\]](#page-28-2), following a workflow introduced first by Bootle et al. (BCCGP) [\[6\]](#page-27-1) which extracts a witness from a tree of multi-round executions obtained by clever rewinding of P ˚. In particular, since the number of generated accepted interactions is large (i.e., exponential in the number of rounds), the usage of an expected-time strategy is essential to extract with good enough probability.

These works in fact prove the stronger property of witness-extended emulation [\[13](#page-28-12)[,17\]](#page-28-13). This means that with black-box access to a prover P ˚, an expected-time emulator E (1) generates a transcript with the same distribution as in an interaction between P ˚ and the verifier V, and (2) if this transcript is accepting, then a valid witness is produced along with it. In the case of arguments, it is possible that (2) fails, but this would imply breaking an underlying assumption.

The BCCGP framework was refined in follow-up works [\[28,](#page-28-1)[7,](#page-27-2)[8\]](#page-28-2), but these remain largely asymptotic. We give here a clean and modular treatment of the BCCGP blueprint, which makes it amenable to a concrete security treatment. In our treatment, we introduce the notion of predicate-extended emulation. This is parameterized by a predicate Π whose output depends on the public parameters of the proof system, the statement being proven, and a third auxiliary input aux. Property (2) of this notion requires that when the transcript is accepting, the emulator produces aux satisfying Π. Witness-extended emulation is captured as a special case by the predicate Πwit which checks if aux is a valid witness for the statement.

To capture the BCCGP workflow we consider an intermediate predicate which checks if aux is a wellformed tree of transcripts. Analyzing security with respect to this predicate will in particular require using our tools from the first part of the paper to analyze the probability that we generate such a tree. Security with respect to different predicates is related by considering an extractor X which produces output satisfying one predicate given input which satisfies another (e.g. extract a witness from a well-formed tree of transcripts). Prior uses of the BCCGP approach had minor technical gaps in their proofs when accounting for the possibility that the extractor will fail on some trees of transcripts because the cheating prover has (implicitly) broken a presumed hard computational problem; our approach captures this possibility cleanly by considering predicates corresponding to the computational problem.

In Appendix [A,](#page-28-14) we compare our expected-time forking lemma to one with strict running-time guarantees and confirm that the expected-time approach achieves a clear benefit in terms of tightness of the reduction.

Application to Bulletproofs. Finally, we apply the above framework to obtain a bound on the concrete soundness for public-coin interactive argument systems, and focus on Bulletproofs [\[7\]](#page-27-2).[1](#page-3-0) We obtain a bound in terms of the expected-time hardness of the discrete logarithm problem, and we combine this with our generic-

<span id="page-3-0"></span><sup>1</sup> Our focus is somewhat arbitrary, and motivated by the popularity of this proof system.

{4}------------------------------------------------

group analysis to get a bound on the soundness in the generic-group model.<sup>2</sup> Of independent interest, the result relies on a *tight* reduction of finding non-trivial discrete log relations to the plain discrete log problem – which we give in Lemma 3.

Our bound is in particular on the probability  $Adv_{PS,G}^{sound}(P^*)$  of a cheating prover  $P^*$  convincing a verifier V (from proof system PS) on input x generated by a (randomized) instance generator G, and we show that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sound}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathsf{P}^*) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{B}) + O\left(\frac{q_{\mathsf{P}^*} \cdot LM^3 \log_2(M)}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}}\right) \;,$$

where  $q_{P^*}$  measures the number of group operations by  $P^*$ , M is the number of multiplication gates for a circuit representing the relation R, L is a parameter of that circuit (which we assume is small for this discussion, but may be as large as 2M),  $Adv_{PS,G}^{wit}(\mathcal{B})$  is the probability of  $\mathcal{B}$  extracting a witness w for an x sampled by G, where  $\mathcal{B}$  is an extractor whose (expected) running time amounts to roughly  $M^3$  that of  $P^*$ .

This bound is interesting because it highlights the dependence of the soundness probability on the group size  $|\mathbb{G}|$  and on M. It in fact shows that for typical instantiations, where  $|\mathbb{G}| \approx 2^{256}$ , the guaranteed security level is fairly low for modest-sized circuits (say with  $M = 2^{20}$ ). It is a good question whether this bound can be made tighter, in particular with respect to its dependence on M.

We also note that for specific instance generators G our tools may be helpful to estimate  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{B})$ .

## 2 Preliminaries

Let  $\mathbb{N} = \{0, 1, 2, ...\}$  and  $\mathbb{N}_{>0} = \mathbb{N}\setminus\{0\}$ . For  $N \in \mathbb{N}$ , let  $[N] = \{1, 2, ..., N\}$ . For j > k we adopt the conventions that  $\prod_{i=j}^k n_i = 1$  and  $(m_j, m_{j+1}, ..., m_k) = ()$ . Equivalence mod p is denoted  $\equiv_p$ . We let  $\mathsf{Perm}(S)$  denote the set of all permutations on set S and  $\mathsf{Fcs}(S, S')$  denote the set of all functions

We let  $\mathsf{Perm}(S)$  denote the set of all permutations on set S and  $\mathsf{Fcs}(S,S')$  denote the set of all functions from S to S'. Sampling x uniformly from the set S is denoted  $x \leftarrow S$ . The notation  $S = S' \sqcup S''$  means that  $S = S' \cup S''$  and  $S' \cap S'' = \emptyset$ , i.e., S' and S'' partition S. We let  $\{0,1\}^*$  denote the set of finite-length bitstrings and  $\{0,1\}^{\infty}$  denote the set of infinite-length bitstrings.

We let  $y \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}}(x_1, x_2, \ldots; c)$  denote the execution of  $\mathcal{A}$  on input  $x_1, x_2, \ldots$  and coins  $c \in \{0, 1\}^{\infty}$  with access to oracle(s) O, producing output y. When c is chosen uniformly we write  $y \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}}(x_1, x_2, \ldots)$ . For a stateful algorithm  $\mathcal{A}$  with state s we use  $y \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}}(x_1, x_2, \cdots; s; c)$  as shorthand for the expression  $(y, s) \leftarrow A^{\mathcal{O}}(x_1, x_2, \ldots, s; c)$ . When some of an algorithm's output is not going to be used we will write  $\cdot$  in place of giving it a variable name.

We use pseudocode games, inspired by the code-based game framework of Bellare and Rogaway [4]. See Fig. 1 for some example games. If H is a game, then Pr[H] denotes the probability that it outputs true. We use  $\land$ ,  $\lor$ ,  $\Leftrightarrow$ , and  $\neg$  for the logical operators "and", "or", "iff", and "not".

RUNNING-TIME CONVENTIONS. The most commonly used notion for the running time of an algorithm is worst-case. For this, one first fixes a computational model with an associated notion of computational steps. Then an algorithm  $\mathcal{A}$  has worst-case running time t if for all choice of  $x_1, x_2, \ldots$  and c it performs at most t computation steps in the execution  $\mathcal{A}^{O}(x_1, x_2, \ldots; c)$ , no matter how O responds to any oracle queries  $\mathcal{A}$  makes.

In this paper we are interested in proving bounds that instead depend on the expected number of computation steps that  $\mathcal{A}$  performs. There may be randomness in how the inputs  $x_1, x_2, \ldots$  to  $\mathcal{A}$  and the responses to O queries are chosen (in addition to the random selection of c).

There is more variation in how expected running time may be defined. We will provide our bounds in terms of the expected running time of adversaries interacting with the "real" world that they expect to interact with. Such a notion of expected runtime is brittle because the expected runtime of the adversary may vary greatly when executing in some other world; however, this notion is the strongest for the purposes of

<span id="page-4-0"></span>This bound is helped by the fact that our casting of the generic-group model allows multi-exponentiations  $(g_0, \ldots, g_n, a_0, \ldots, a_n \to \prod_{i=0}^n g_i^{a_i})$  as a unit operation. This does not change the derived bound in the generic-group model, while decreasing the number of generic-group queries made by the Bulletproofs verifier.

{5}------------------------------------------------

| )) |
|----|
|    |
| i  |
|    |

<span id="page-5-1"></span>Fig. 1. Left: Game defining discrete log security of group  $\mathbb{G}$ . Middle: Game defining discrete log relation security of group  $\mathbb{G}$ . Right: Reduction adversary for Lemma 3.

our results because it will guarantee the same bounds for notions of expected running time which restrict the allowed adversaries more. See [12,16] for interesting discussion of various ways to define expected polynomial time.

For many of the results of this paper, rather than directly measuring the runtime of the adversary we will look at the (worst-case or expected) number of oracle queries that it makes. The number of oracle queries can, of course, be upper bounded by the number of computational steps.

USEFUL LEMMAS. We will make use of Markov's inequality and the Schwartz-Zippel Lemma, which we reproduce here.

**Lemma 1 (Markov's Inequality).** Let X be a non-negative random variable and c > 0 be a non-negative constant, then

$$\Pr[X > c] \le \Pr[X \ge c] \le \mathsf{E}[X]/c.$$

**Lemma 2** (Schwartz-Zippel Lemma). Let  $\mathbb{F}$  be a finite field and let  $p \in \mathbb{F}[x_1, x_2, \dots x_n]$  be a non-zero polynomial with degree  $d \ge 0$ . Then

$$\Pr[p(r_1,\ldots,r_n)=0] \leqslant d/|\mathbb{F}|$$

where the probability is over the choice of  $r_1, \ldots, r_n$  according to  $r_i \leftarrow \mathbb{F}$ .

DISCRETE LOGARITHM ASSUMPTIONS. Let  $\mathbb{G}$  be a cyclic group of prime order p with identity  $1_{\mathbb{G}}$  and  $\mathbb{G}^* = \mathbb{G}\setminus\{1_{\mathbb{G}}\}$  be its set of generators. Let  $(g_0,\ldots,g_n)\in\mathbb{G}^n$  and  $(a_0,\ldots,a_n)\in\mathbb{Z}_p$ . If  $\prod_{i=0}^n g_i^{a_i}=1_{\mathbb{G}}$  and a least one of the  $a_i$  are non-zero, this is said to be a non-trivial discrete log relation. It is believed to be hard to find non-trivial discrete log relations in cryptographic groups (when the  $g_i$  are chosen at random). We refer to computing  $\prod_{i=0}^n g_i^{a_i}$  as a multi-exponentiation of size n+1.

Discrete log relation security is defined by the game in the middle of Fig. 1. In it, the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  is given a vector  $\mathbf{g} = (g_0, \dots, g_n)$  and attempts to find a non-trivial discrete log relation. We define  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dl-rel}}_{\mathbb{G},n}(\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{dl-rel}}_{\mathbb{G},n}(\mathcal{A})]$ . Normal discrete log security is defined by the game in the left panel of Fig. 1. In it, the adversary attempts to find the discrete log of  $h \in \mathbb{G}$  with respect to a generator  $g \in \mathbb{G}^*$ . We define  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dl}}_{\mathbb{G}}(\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{dl}}_{\mathbb{G}}(\mathcal{A})]$ .

It is well known that discrete log relation security is asymptotically equivalent to discrete log security. The following lemma makes careful use of self-reducibility techniques to give a concrete bound showing that discrete log relation security is tightly implied by discrete log security.

**Lemma 3.** Let  $\mathbb{G}$  be a group of prime order p and  $n \ge 1$  be an integer. For any  $\mathcal{B}$ , define  $\mathcal{C}$  as shown in Fig. 1. Then

<span id="page-5-0"></span>
$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dI-rel}}_{\mathbb{G},n}(\mathcal{B}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dI}}_{\mathbb{G}}(\mathcal{C}) + 1/p.$$

The runtime of C is that of B plus the time to perform n+1 multi-exponentiations of size 2 and some computations in the field  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ .

{6}------------------------------------------------

*Proof.* The claimed runtime of  $\mathcal{C}$  is clear from its code. To understand the claimed advantage bound, let  $a' \in \mathbb{Z}_p$  be the discrete log of h with respect to g in  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{dl}}_{\mathbb{G}}(\mathcal{C})$ .

Note that when  $\mathcal{B}$  is running, each  $g_i$  is a uniformly and independently sampled element of  $\mathbb{G}$  from the perspective of  $\mathcal{A}$ . This gives us

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dl-rel}}_{\mathbb{G}_n}(\mathcal{B}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\exists i, a_i \not\equiv_p 0 \land \prod_i g_i^{a_i} = 1_{\mathbb{G}}]$$

where we think of the probability as being measured in  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{dl}}_{\mathbb{G}}(\mathcal{C})$ . Furthermore, note that,

$$\prod_{i=0}^{n} g_i^{a_i} = 1_{\mathbb{G}} \Leftrightarrow \sum_{i=0}^{n} a_i (x_i + a' y_i) \equiv_p 0.$$

Solving the latter equation for a', we have that  $a' = -\sum_i a_i x_i / \sum_i a_i y_i$  as long as this division is well-defined (i.e.,  $\sum_i a_i y_i \neq_p 0$ ). Thus we have,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dl}}_{\mathbb{G}}(\mathcal{C}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\prod_i g_i^{a_i} = 1_{\mathbb{G}} \land \sum_i a_i y_i \not\equiv_p 0].$$

Note that  $\sum_i a_i y_i \not\equiv_p 0$  implies  $\exists i, a_i \not\equiv_p 0$ . Then we can perform some calculations to obtain our result via,

$$\begin{aligned} &\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dI-rel}}_{\mathbb{G},p,n}(\mathcal{B}) = \mathsf{Pr}\big[\exists i, a_i \not\equiv_p 0 \land \prod_i g_i^{a_i} = 1_{\mathbb{G}}\big] \\ &\leqslant \mathsf{Pr}\big[\exists i, a_i \not\equiv_p 0 \land \prod_i g_i^{a_i} = 1_{\mathbb{G}} \land \sum_i a_i y_i \not\equiv_p 0\big] + \mathsf{Pr}\big[\exists i, a_i \not\equiv_p 0 \land \sum_i a_i y_i \equiv_p 0\big] \\ &= \mathsf{Pr}\big[\prod_i g_i^{a_i} = 1_{\mathbb{G}} \land \sum_i a_i y_i \not\equiv_p 0\big] + \mathsf{Pr}\big[\exists i, a_i \not\equiv_p 0 \land \sum_i a_i y_i \equiv_p 0\big] \\ &= \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dI}}_{\mathbb{G}}(\mathcal{C}) + \mathsf{Pr}\big[\exists i, a_i \not\equiv_p 0 \land \sum_i a_i y_i \equiv_p 0\big] \\ &\leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dI}}_{\mathbb{G}}(\mathcal{C}) + 1/p. \end{aligned}$$

The last inequality comes from the Schwartz-Zippel lemma. We can think of  $\mathcal{B}$ 's output as specifying the linear function  $\sum_i a_i Y_i \in \mathbb{Z}_p[Y_0, ..., Y_n]$ , which is non-zero if at least one of the  $a_i$  is non-zero. Note that  $\mathcal{B}$ 's view is independent of the  $y_i$ 's, so we can think of them as being sampled after  $\mathcal{B}$  is executed. By Schwartz-Zippel, the probability this function equals zero over a uniform choice of  $y_i$ 's is at most 1/p.

### <span id="page-6-2"></span>3 Bad Flag Analysis For Expected-Time Adversaries

In this section we show how to (somewhat) generically extend the standard techniques for analysis of "bad" flags from worst-case adversaries to expected-time adversaries. Such analysis is a fundamental tool for cryptographic proofs and has been formalized in various works [4,18,27]. Our results are tailored for the setting where the analysis of the bad flag is information theoretic (e.g. applications in ideal models), rather than reliant on computational assumptions.

We start by introducing our notation and model for identical-until-bad games in Section 3.1. Then in Section 3.2 we give the main theorem of this section which shows how to obtain bounds on the probability that an expected time adversary causes a bad flag to be set. Finally, in Section 3.3 we walk through some basic applications (collision-resistance and PRF security in the random oracle model and discrete log security in the generic group model) to show the analysis required for expected time adversaries follows from simple modifications of the techniques used for worst-case adversaries.

#### <span id="page-6-0"></span>3.1 Notation and Experiments For Identical-until-bad Games.

IDENTICAL-UNTIL-BAD GAMES. Consider Fig. 2 which defines a pair of games  $G_0^{(G,G')}$  and  $G_1^{(G,G')}$  from a game specification (G,G'). Here G and G' are stateful randomized algorithms. At the beginning of the game, coins  $c_0$ ,  $c_1$ , and  $c_A$  are sampled uniformly at random.<sup>3</sup> The first two of these are used by G and G' while

<span id="page-6-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> In the measure-theoretic probability sense with each individual bit of the coins being sampled uniformly and independently.

{7}------------------------------------------------

```
\frac{\mathrm{Game}\ \mathsf{G}_{b}^{(G,G')}(\mathcal{A})}{c_{0} \leftarrow \$ \{0,1\}^{\infty}}
                                                         ORAC(x)
                                                         \overline{t \leftarrow t + 1}
c_1 \leftarrow \$ \{0,1\}^{\infty}
                                                         If \neg bad then
c_{\mathcal{A}} \leftarrow \$ \{0,1\}^{\infty}
                                                               \mathsf{bad}_t \leftarrow G'(x:s';c_0,c_1)
t \leftarrow 0
                                                              If bad<sub>t</sub> then bad \leftarrow true
                                                         If bad then d \leftarrow b
bad ← false
                                                         Else d \leftarrow 1
s \leftarrow \varepsilon
                                                         y \leftarrow G(d, x:s; c_1, c_d)
s' \leftarrow \varepsilon
Run \mathcal{A}^{\text{Orac}}(c_{\mathcal{A}})
                                                         Return y
```

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Fig. 2. Identical-until-bad games defined from game specification (G, G').

the last is used by  $\mathcal{A}$ .<sup>4</sup> The counter t is initialized to 0, the flag bad is set to false, and states s and s' are initialized for use by G and G'.

During the execution of the game, the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  repeatedly makes queries to the oracle Orac. The variable t counts how many queries  $\mathcal{A}$  makes. As long as bad is still false (so  $\neg$ bad is true), for each query made by  $\mathcal{A}$  the algorithm G' will be given this query to determine if bad should be set to true. When b = 1, the behavior of Orac does not depend on whether bad is set because the output of the oracle is always determined by running  $G(1, x : s; c_1, c_1)$ . When b = 0, the output of the oracle is defined in the same way up until the point that bad is set to true. Once that occurs, the output is instead determined by running  $G(0, x : s; c_1, c_0)$ . Because these two games are identical except in the behavior of the code  $d \leftarrow b$  which is only executed once bad = true, they are "identical-until-bad".

In this section, the goal of the adversary is to cause bad to be set to true. Bounding the probability that  $\mathcal{A}$  succeeds in this can be used to analyze security notions in two different ways. For indistinguishability-based security notions (e.g. PRG or PRF security), the two games  $G_b$  would correspond to the two worlds the adversary is attempting to distinguish between. For other security notions (e.g. collision resistance or discrete log security), we think of one of the  $G_b$  as corresponding to the game the adversary is trying to win and the other as corresponding to a related "ideal" world in which the adversary's success probably can easily be bounded. In either case, the fundamental lemma of game playing [4] can be used to bound the advantage of the adversary using a bound on the probability that bad is set.

A COMBINED EXPERIMENT. For our coming analysis it will be useful to relate executions of  $\mathsf{G}_0^{(G,G')}(\mathcal{A})$  and  $\mathsf{G}_1^{(G,G')}(\mathcal{A})$  to each other. For this we can think of a single combined experiment in which we sample  $c_0$ ,  $c_1$ , and  $c_{\mathcal{A}}$  once and then run both games separately using these coins.

For  $b \in \{0,1\}$ , we let  $Q_b^{\mathcal{A}}$  be a random variable denoting how many oracle queries  $\mathcal{A}$  makes in the execution of  $\mathsf{G}_b^{(G,G')}(\mathcal{A})$  during this experiment. We let  $\mathsf{BAD}_t^{\mathcal{A}}[b]$  denote the event that G' sets  $\mathsf{bad}_t$  to true in the execution of  $\mathsf{G}_b^{(G,G')}(\mathcal{A})$ . Note that  $\mathsf{BAD}_t^{\mathcal{A}}[0]$  will occur if and only if  $\mathsf{BAD}_t^{\mathcal{A}}[1]$  occurs, because the behavior of both games are identical up until the first time that  $\mathsf{bad}$  is set and G' is never again executed once  $\mathsf{bad}$  is true. Hence we can simplify notation by defining  $\mathsf{BAD}_t^{\mathcal{A}}$  to be identical to the event  $\mathsf{BAD}_t^{\mathcal{A}}[0]$ , while keeping in mind that we can equivalently think of this event as occurring in the execution of either game. We additionally define the event that  $\mathsf{bad}$  is ever set  $\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}} = \bigvee_{i=1}^{\infty} \mathsf{BAD}_i^{\mathcal{A}}$ , the event that  $\mathsf{bad}$  is set by one of the first j queries the adversary makes  $\mathsf{BAD}_{\leq j}^{\mathcal{A}} = \bigvee_{i=1}^{j} \mathsf{BAD}_j^{\mathcal{A}}$ , and the event that  $\mathsf{bad}$  is set after the j-th query the adversary makes  $\mathsf{BAD}_{>j}^{\mathcal{A}} = \bigvee_{i=j+1}^{\infty} \mathsf{Clearly}, \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}] = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}_{\leq j}^{\mathcal{A}}] + \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}_{>j}^{\mathcal{A}}]$ . Again we can equivalently think of these events as occurring in either game. When the adversary is clear from context we may choose to omit it from the superscript in our notation.

The fact that both games behave identically until bad is set true allows us to make several nice observations. If BAD does not hold, then  $Q_0 = Q_1$  must hold. If BAD<sub>t</sub> holds for some t, then both  $Q_0$  and  $Q_1$  must

<span id="page-7-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> We emphasize that these algorithms are not allowed any randomness beyond the use of these coins.

{8}------------------------------------------------

be at least t. One implication of this is that if  $Q_1 = q$  holds for some q, then BAD is equivalent to  $\mathsf{BAD}_{\leq q}$ . Additionally, we can see that  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}_{>q}] \leq \mathsf{Pr}[Q_b > q]$  must hold.

Defining our events and random variables in this single experiment will later allow to consider the expectation  $\mathsf{E}[Q_0^d|Q_1=q]$  for some  $d,q\in\mathbb{N}$ . In words, that is the expected value of  $Q_0$  raised to the d-th power conditioned on  $c_0,c_1,c_{\mathcal{A}}$  having been chosen so that  $Q_1=q$  held. Since  $Q_0$  and  $Q_1$  can only differ if BAD occurs we will be able to use  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}|Q_1=q]$  to bound how far  $\mathsf{E}[Q_0^d|Q_1=q]$  can be from  $\mathsf{E}[Q_1^d|Q_1=q]=q^d$ .

 $\delta$ -BOUNDEDNESS. Existing analysis of identical-until-bad games is done by assuming a worst-case bound  $q_{\mathcal{A}}$  on the number of oracle queries that  $\mathcal{A}$  makes (in either game). Given such a bound, one shows that  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}] \leq \delta(q_{\mathcal{A}})$  for some function  $\delta$ . We will say that a game specification (G, G') is  $\delta$ -bounded if for all  $\mathcal{A}$  and  $g \in \mathbb{N}$  we have that

$$\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}|Q_1=q] \leqslant \delta(q).$$

As observed earlier, if  $Q_1 = q$  holds then  $\mathsf{bad}_t$  cannot be set for any t > q. Hence  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}|Q_1 = q] = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}_{\leq q}|Q_1 = q]$ .

We will, in particular, be interested in that case that  $\delta(q) = \Delta \cdot q^d/N$  for some  $\Delta, d, N \geqslant 1.5$  We think of  $\Delta$  and d as "small" and of N as "large". The main result of this section bounds the probability that an adversary sets bad by  $O\left(\sqrt[d]{\delta\left(\mathbb{E}[Q_b]\right)}\right)$  for either b if (G, G') is  $\delta$ -bounded for such a  $\delta$ .

While  $\delta$ -boundedness may seem to be a strange condition, we show in Section 3.3 that the existing techniques for proving results of the form  $\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}] \leq \delta(q_{\mathcal{A}})$  for  $\mathcal{A}$  making at most  $q_{\mathcal{A}}$  queries can often be easily extended to show the  $\delta$ -boundedness of a game (G, G'). The examples we consider are the collision-resistance and PRF security of a random oracle and the security of discrete log in the generic group model. In particular, these examples all possess a common form. First, we note that the output of  $G(1,\ldots)$  is independent of  $c_0$ . Consequently, the view of  $\mathcal{A}$  when b=1 is independent of  $c_0$  and hence  $Q_1$  is independent of  $c_0$ . To analyze  $\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}|Q_1=q]$  we can then think of c' and  $c_1$  being fixed (fixing the transcript of interaction between  $\mathcal{A}$  and its oracle in  $\mathsf{G}_1^G$ ) and argue that for any such length q interaction the probability of BAD is bounded by  $\delta(q)$  over a random choice of  $c_0$ .

We note that this general form seems to typically be implicit in the existing analysis of bad flags for the statistical problems one comes across in ideal model analysis, but would not extend readily to examples where the probability of the bad flag being set is reduced to the probability of an adversary breaking some computational assumption.

#### <span id="page-8-1"></span>3.2 Expected-Time Bound From $\delta$ -boundedness

We can now state our result lifting  $\delta$ -boundedness to a bound on the probability that an adversary sets bad given only its expected number of oracle queries.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Theorem 1.** Let  $\delta(q) = \Delta \cdot q^d/N$  for  $\Delta, d, N \geqslant 1$ . Let (G, G') be a  $\delta$ -bounded game specification. If  $N \geqslant \Delta \cdot 6^d$ , then for any A,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}] \leqslant 5\sqrt[d]{\frac{\Delta \cdot \mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]^d}{N}} = 5\sqrt[d]{\delta\left(\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]\right)}.$$

If  $N \geqslant \Delta \cdot 2^d$ , then for any A,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}] \leqslant 3\sqrt[d]{\frac{\Delta \cdot \mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{A}}]^d}{N}} = 3\sqrt[d]{\delta\left(\mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{A}}]\right)}.$$

We provide bounds based on the expected runtime in either of the two games since they are not necessarily the same. Typically, one of the two games will correspond to a "real" world and it will be natural to desire a bound in terms of the expected runtime in that game. In Section 5, we show via a simple attack that the d-th root in these bounds is necessary.

<span id="page-8-2"></span>We could simply let  $\varepsilon = \Delta/N$  and instead say  $\delta(q) = \varepsilon q^d$ , but for our examples we found it more evocative to write these terms separately.

{9}------------------------------------------------

Proof (of Theorem 1). We start with the proof for  $Q_0$ , which is slightly more complex. Then we will provide the proof for  $Q_1$ , which is simpler because we avoid a step in which relate  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_1^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$  and  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$ .

The  $Q_0$  case. Let  $u=2^{-d}$  and  $U=\left\lfloor \sqrt[d]{Nu/\Delta}\right\rfloor$ . Note that  $\delta(U)\leqslant u$ . Now let  $\mathcal{B}$  be an adversary that runs exactly like  $\mathcal{A}$ , except that it counts the number of oracle queries made by  $\mathcal{A}$  and halts execution if  $\mathcal{A}$  attempts to make a U+1-th query. We start our proof by bounding the probability of  $\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}$  by the probability of  $\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}$  and an  $O\left(\sqrt[d]{\delta\left(\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]\right)}\right)$  term by applying Markov's inequality. In particular we perform the calculations

$$Pr[BAD^{\mathcal{A}}] = Pr[BAD^{\mathcal{A}}_{\leq U}] + Pr[BAD^{\mathcal{A}}_{>U}]$$
(3)

<span id="page-9-0"></span>
$$= \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}_{\leq U}^{\mathcal{B}}] + \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}_{>U}^{\mathcal{A}}] \tag{4}$$

<span id="page-9-1"></span>
$$\leq \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}] + \Pr\left[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}} > U\right]$$
 (5)

<span id="page-9-3"></span><span id="page-9-2"></span>
$$\leq \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}] + \mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]/U$$
 (6)

$$\leq \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}] + 3\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}] \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N}.$$
 (7)

Step 4 follows because for all queries up to the U-th, adversary  $\mathcal{B}$  behaves identically to  $\mathcal{A}$  (and thus  $\mathsf{BAD}_i^{\mathcal{A}} = \mathsf{BAD}_i^{\mathcal{B}}$  for  $i \leq U$ ). Step 5 follows because  $\mathsf{BAD}_{>U}^{\mathcal{B}}$  cannot occur (because  $\mathcal{B}$  never makes more than U queries) and  $\mathsf{BAD}_{>U}^{\mathcal{A}}$  can only occur if  $Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}$  is at greater than U. Step 6 follows from Markov's inequality. Step 7 follows from the following calculation which uses the assumption that  $N \geq \Delta \cdot 6^d$  and that  $u = 2^{-d}$ ,

$$\begin{split} U &= \left\lfloor \sqrt[d]{Nu/\Delta} \right\rfloor \geqslant \sqrt[d]{Nu/\Delta} - 1 = \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta} \left( \sqrt[d]{u} - \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \right) \\ &\geqslant \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta} \left( \sqrt[d]{2^{-d}} - \sqrt[d]{\Delta/(\Delta \cdot 6^d)} \right) = \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta} \left( 1/2 - 1/6 \right). \end{split}$$

In the rest of the proof we need to establish that  $\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}] \leq 2\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}] \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N}$ . We show this with  $\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}]$ , which is clearly upper bounded by  $\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]$ . We will do this by first bounding  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}]$  in terms of  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_1^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$ , then bounding  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_1^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$  in terms of  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$ , and then concluding by bounding this in terms of  $\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}]$ . For the first of these steps we expand  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}]$  by conditioning on all possible values of  $Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}$  and applying our assumption that (G, G') is  $\delta$ -bounded to get

$$\begin{split} \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}] &= \sum_{q=1}^{U} \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}|Q_{1}^{\mathcal{B}} = q] \Pr[Q_{1}^{\mathcal{B}} = q] \leqslant \sum_{q=1}^{U} (\Delta \cdot q^{d}/N) \Pr[Q_{1}^{\mathcal{B}} = q] \\ &= \Delta/N \sum_{q=1}^{U} q^{d} \Pr[Q_{1}^{\mathcal{B}} = q] = \Delta \mathsf{E}[(Q_{1}^{\mathcal{B}})^{d}]/N. \end{split}$$

So next we will bound  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$  in terms of  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$ . To start, we will give a lower bound for  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d|Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}=q]$  (when  $q \leq U$ ) by using our assumption that (G,G') is  $\delta$ -bounded. Let  $R_0$  be a random variable which equals  $Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}$  if  $\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}$  does not occur and equals 0 otherwise. Clearly  $R_0 \leq Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}$  always. Recall that if  $\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}$  does not occur, then  $Q_0^{\mathcal{B}} = Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}$  (and hence  $R_0 = Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}$ ) must hold. We obtain

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d|Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} &= q] \geqslant \mathsf{E}[R_0^d|Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q] \\ &= q^d \mathsf{Pr}\big[ \neg \mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}|Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big] + 0^d \mathsf{Pr}\big[ \mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}|Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big] \\ &= q^d (1 - \mathsf{Pr}\big[ \mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}|Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big]) \\ &\geqslant q^d (1 - \delta(q)) \geqslant q^d (1 - u). \end{split}$$

The last step used that  $\delta(q) \leq \delta(U) \leq u$  because  $q \leq U$ .

{10}------------------------------------------------

Now we proceed by expanding  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_1^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$  by conditioning on the possible value of  $Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}$  and using the above bound to switch  $\mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d|Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}=q]$  in for  $q^d$ . This gives,

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{E} \big[ (Q_1^{\mathcal{B}})^d \big] &= \sum_{q=1}^{U} q^d \cdot \mathsf{Pr} \big[ Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big] \\ &= \sum_{q=1}^{U} \mathsf{E} \big[ (Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d | Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big] \cdot \frac{q^d}{\mathsf{E} \big[ (Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d | Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big]} \cdot \mathsf{Pr} \big[ Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big] \\ &\leqslant \sum_{q=1}^{U} \mathsf{E} \big[ (Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d | Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big] \cdot \frac{q^d}{q^d (1-u)} \cdot \mathsf{Pr} \big[ Q_1^{\mathcal{B}} = q \big] \\ &= (1-u)^{-1} \mathsf{E} \big[ (Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d \big] \end{split}$$

Our calculations so far give us that  $\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}] \leq (1-u)^{-1}\mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d] \cdot \Delta/N$ . We need to show that this is bounded by  $2\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}]\sqrt[d]{\Delta/N}$ . First note that  $Q_0^{\mathcal{B}} \leq U$  always holds by the definition of  $\mathcal{B}$ , so

$$(1-u)^{-1} \mathsf{E}[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d] \cdot \Delta/N \le (1-u)^{-1} \mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}] \cdot U^{d-1} \cdot \Delta/N.$$

Now since  $U = \left| \sqrt[d]{Nu/\Delta} \right|$ , we have  $U^{d-1} \leq (Nu/\Delta)^{(d-1)/d}$  which gives

$$(1-u)^{-1} \mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}] \cdot U^{d-1} \cdot \Delta/N \leqslant (1-u)^{-1} (u^{(d-1)/d}) \mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}] \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N}.$$

Finally, recall that we set  $u = 2^{-d}$  and so

$$(1-u)^{-1}(u^{(d-1)/d}) = \frac{2^{-d \cdot (d-1)/d}}{1-2^{-d}} = \frac{2^{1-d}}{1-2^{-d}} \leqslant \frac{2^{1-1}}{1-2^{-1}} = 2.$$

Bounding  $E[Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}] \leq E[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]$  and combining with our original bound on  $Pr[BAD^{\mathcal{A}}]$  completes this case.  $\Box$  The  $Q_1$  Case. Now we consider  $Q_1$ . This case proceeds similarly, but avoids the need to relate  $E[(Q_1^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$  and  $E[(Q_0^{\mathcal{B}})^d]$ . Using that (G, G') is  $\delta$ -bounded, for any adversary  $\mathcal{C}$  we obtain

$$\begin{split} \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{C}}] &= \sum_{q \geqslant 1} \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{C}}|Q_1^{\mathcal{C}} = q] \Pr[Q_1^{\mathcal{C}} = q] \\ &\leqslant \sum_{q \geqslant 1} (\Delta \cdot q^d/N) \Pr[Q_1^{\mathcal{C}} = q] \\ &= \Delta/N \sum_{q \geqslant 1} q^d \Pr[Q_1^{\mathcal{C}} = q] \\ &= \Delta \mathsf{E}[(Q_1^{\mathcal{C}})^d]/N. \end{split}$$

Let u=1 and  $U=\left\lfloor \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta}\right\rfloor$ . Note that  $\delta(U) \leq u$ . Now let  $\mathcal{B}$  be an adversary that runs exactly like  $\mathcal{A}$ , except that it counts the number of oracle queries made by  $\mathcal{A}$  and halts execution if  $\mathcal{A}$  attempts to make a U+1-th query. Then,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}] \leqslant \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}] + \mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{A}}]/U \tag{8}$$

<span id="page-10-0"></span>
$$\leq \Delta \mathsf{E}[(Q_1^{\mathcal{B}})^d]/N + 2\mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{A}}] \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \tag{9}$$

$$\leq \mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}] \cdot U^{d-1} \cdot \Delta/N + 2\mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{A}}] \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \tag{10}$$

$$\leq \mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}] \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} + 2\mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{A}}] \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N}$$
 (11)

$$\leqslant 3\sqrt[d]{\frac{\Delta \cdot \mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{A}}]^d}{N}} \tag{12}$$

{11}------------------------------------------------

```
Game \mathsf{H}_b^{\mathsf{cr}}(\mathcal{A})
                                                         Ro(x)
t \leftarrow 0
                                                         If T[x] \neq \bot then return T[x]
\pi \leftarrow \$ \operatorname{Perm}([N])
                                                         t \leftarrow t + 1
For i > N do \pi[i] \leftarrow i
                                                         T[x] \leftarrow \pi[t]
win ← false
                                                         X \leftarrow \$ [N]
Run \mathcal{A}^{\mathrm{Ro},\mathrm{Fin}}
                                                         If X \in {\pi[i] : i < t} then
Return win
                                                            bad ← true
                                                            If b = 0 then
FIN(x, y)
                                                                T[x] \leftarrow X
If x \neq y and Ro(x) = Ro(y) then
                                                                t \leftarrow t - 1
    win ← true
                                                         Return T[x]
Return win
```

<span id="page-11-1"></span>**Fig. 3.** Game capturing collision-resistance of a random oracle (when b = 0).

Step 9 makes use of the following calculation which follows because  $N \geqslant \Delta 2^d$ ,

$$U = \left[\sqrt[d]{N/\Delta}\right] \geqslant \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta} - \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \cdot \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta}$$

$$\geqslant \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta} - \sqrt[d]{\Delta/\Delta} 2^d \cdot \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta} = \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta} - (1/2) \cdot \sqrt[d]{N/\Delta}$$

$$= 1/2\sqrt[d]{N/\Delta}.$$

This completes the proof.

#### <span id="page-11-0"></span>3.3 Example Applications of Bad Flag Analysis

In this section we walk through some basic examples to show how a bound of  $\Pr[\mathsf{bad}|Q_1 = q] \leq \Delta \cdot q^d/N$  can be proven using essentially the same techniques as typical bad flag analysis for worst-case runtime, allowing Theorem 1 to be applied. All of our examples follow the basic structure discussed earlier in this section. We write the analysis in terms of two games which are identical-until-bad and parameterized by a bit b. In the b=1 game, the output of its oracles will depend on some coins we identify as  $c_1$ , while in the b=0 case the output will depend on both  $c_1$  and independent coins we identify as  $c_0$ . Then we think of fixing coins  $c_1$  and the coins used by the adversary, which together fix  $Q_1$  (the number of queries  $\mathcal{A}$  would make in the b=1 case), and argue a bound on the probability that bad is set over a random choice of  $c_0$ .

We write the necessary games in convenient pseudocode and leave the mapping to a game specification (G, G') to apply Theorem 1 implicit. We will abuse notation and use the name of our pseudocode game to refer to the corresponding game specification.

Collision-resistance of a random oracle. Here an adversary is given access to a random function  $h:\{0,1\}^* \to [N]$ . It wins if it can find  $x \neq y$  for which h(x) = h(y), i.e., a collision in the random oracle. One way to express this is by the game  $H_0^{cr}$  shown in Fig. 3. The random oracle is represented by the oracle Ro and the oracle Fin allows the adversary to submit supposed collisions.

In it, we have written Ro in a somewhat atypical way to allow comparison to  $\mathsf{H}_1^\mathsf{cr}$  with which it is identical-until-bad. The coins used by these games determine a permutation  $\pi$  sampled at the beginning of the game and a value X chosen at random from [N] during each Ro query. We think of the former as  $c_1$  and the latter as  $c_0$ . Ignoring repeat queries, when in  $\mathsf{H}_1^\mathsf{cr}$  the output of Ro is simply  $\pi[1], \pi[2], \ldots$  in order. Thus clearly,  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}_1^\mathsf{cr}(\mathcal{A})] = 0$  since there are no collisions in Ro. In  $\mathsf{H}_0^\mathsf{cr}$  the variable X modifies the output of Ro to provide colliding outputs with the correct distribution.

<span id="page-11-2"></span>We define  $\pi[i] = i$  for i > N just so the game  $\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{cr}}$  is well-defined if  $\mathcal{A}$  makes more than N queries.

{12}------------------------------------------------

```
 \begin{array}{ll} \operatorname{Game} \ \mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{prf}}_b(\mathcal{A}) & \operatorname{Ro}(k,x) \\ \hline T[\cdot,\cdot] \leftarrow \operatorname{s} \operatorname{Fcs}([N] \times \mathcal{D},\mathcal{R}) & \operatorname{If} \ k = K \ \operatorname{then} \\ F[\cdot] \leftarrow \operatorname{s} \operatorname{Fcs}(\mathcal{D},\mathcal{R}) & \operatorname{bad} \leftarrow \operatorname{true} \\ K \leftarrow \operatorname{s} [N] & \operatorname{If} \ b = 0 \ \operatorname{then} \ \operatorname{return} \ F[x] \\ b' \leftarrow \operatorname{s} \mathcal{A}^{\operatorname{Ror},\operatorname{Ro}} & \operatorname{Return} \ T[k,x] \\ \operatorname{Return} \ b' = 1 & \operatorname{RoR}(x) \\ \hline \operatorname{Return} \ F[x] \end{array}
```

<span id="page-12-0"></span>Fig. 4. Games capturing PRF security of a random oracle.

These games are identical-until-bad, so the fundamental lemma of game playing [4] gives us,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{cr}}(\mathcal{A})] \leqslant \Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{cr}}(\mathcal{A}) \text{ sets bad}] + \Pr[\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{cr}}(\mathcal{A})] = \Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{cr}}(\mathcal{A}) \text{ sets bad}].$$

Now think of the adversary's coins and the choice of  $\pi$  as fixed. This fixes a value of  $Q_1$  and a length  $Q_1$  transcript of  $\mathcal{A}$ 's queries in  $\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{cr}}(\mathcal{A})$ . If  $\mathcal{A}$  made all of its queries to Fin, then Ro will have been executed  $2Q_1$  times. On the *i*-th query to Ro, there is at most an (i-1)/N probability that the choice of X will cause bad to be set. By a simple union bound we can get,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}|Q_1 = q] \leqslant q(2q - 1)/N.$$

Setting  $\delta(q) = 2q^2/N$  we have that  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{cr}}$  is  $\delta$ -bounded, so Theorem 1 gives

$$\Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{cr}}(\mathcal{A})] \leqslant 5\sqrt[2]{\frac{2 \cdot \mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]^2}{N}}.$$

PSEUDORANDOMNESS OF A RANDOM ORACLE. Now consider using a random oracle with domain  $[N] \times \mathcal{D}$  and range  $\mathcal{R}$  as a pseudorandom function. The games for this are shown in Fig. 4. The real world is captured by b = 0 (because to output of the random oracle Ro is made to be consistent with output of the real-or-random oracle Ror) and the ideal world by b = 1.

The coins of the game are random tables T and F as well as a random key K. We think of the key as  $c_0$  and the tables as  $c_1$ . Because we have written the games so that the consistency check occurs in Ro, we can clearly see the output of the oracles in  $\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{prf}}$  are independent of  $c_0 = K$ .

These games are identical-until-bad so from the fundamental lemma of game playing we have,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{prf}}(\mathcal{A})] - \Pr[\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{prf}}(\mathcal{A})] \leqslant \Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{prf}}(\mathcal{A}) \text{ sets bad}].$$

Now we think of  $c_1$  and the coins of  $\mathcal{A}$  as fixed. Over a random choice of K, each Ro query has a 1/N change of setting bad. By a simple union bound we get,

$$Pr[BAD|Q_1 = q] \leq q/N.$$

Defining  $\delta(q) = q/N$  we have that  $H^{prf}$  is  $\delta$ -bounded, so Theorem 1 gives

$$\Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{prf}}(\mathcal{A})] - \Pr[\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{prf}}(\mathcal{A})] \leq 5 \cdot \mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]/N.$$

DISCRETE LOGARITHM SECURITY IN THE GENERIC GROUP MODEL. Next we consider discrete logarithm security in the generic group model for a prime order group  $\mathbb G$  with generator g. One way to express this is by the game  $\mathsf{H}_0^\mathsf{dl}$  shown in Fig. 5. In this expression, the adversary is given labels for the group elements it handles based on the time that this group element was generated by the adversary. The more general framing of the generic group model where  $g^x \in \mathbb G$  is labeled by  $\sigma(x)$  for a randomly chosen  $\sigma: \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb G|} \to \{0,1\}^l$  for some  $l \geq \lceil \log |\mathbb G| \rceil$  can easily be reduced to this version of the game.

{13}------------------------------------------------

```
Game \mathsf{H}_b^{\mathsf{dl}}(\mathcal{A})
                                                                \mathrm{OP}(\boldsymbol{j},\boldsymbol{\alpha})
\overline{p_0(\cdot) \leftarrow 0; \ p_1(\cdot) \leftarrow 1}
                                                               Require j[i] \leq t for i = 1, \dots, |j|
                                                               Require \alpha \in \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}^{|j|}
p_2(\cdot) \leftarrow X
t \leftarrow 2; x \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}
x' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\text{Init,Op}}
                                                               t \leftarrow t + 1
                                                               p_t(\cdot) \leftarrow \sum_{i=1}^{|\boldsymbol{j}|} \boldsymbol{\alpha}[i] \cdot p_{\boldsymbol{j}[i]}(\cdot)
                                                               \ell \leftarrow t
Return x = x'
                                                               If p_t(\cdot) \in \mathcal{P}^{t-1} then
INIT()
                                                                     \ell \leftarrow \min\{k < t : p_t(\cdot) = p_k(\cdot)\}\
\overline{\ell \leftarrow 2}
                                                               If p_t(x) \in \mathcal{P}_x^{t-1} and p_t(\cdot) \notin \mathcal{P}^{t-1} then
If p_2(x) \in \mathcal{P}_x^1 then
                                                                     bad ← true
      bad ← true
                                                                     If b = 0 then \ell \leftarrow \min\{k < t : p_t(x) = p_k(x)\}
     If b = 0 then \ell \leftarrow x
                                                               Return \ell
Return \ell
```

<span id="page-13-0"></span>**Fig. 5.** Game capturing discrete logarithm security of a generic group (when b=0). For  $i \in \mathbb{N}$  and  $x \in \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}$ , we use the notation  $\mathcal{P}^i = \{p_0, \dots, p_i\} \subset \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}[X]$  and  $\mathcal{P}^i_x = \{p(x) : p \in \mathcal{P}^i\} \subset \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}$ .

At the beginning of the game polynomials  $p_0(\cdot) = 0$ ,  $p_1(\cdot) = 1$ , and  $p_2(\cdot) = X$  are defined. These are polynomials of the symbolic variable X, defined over  $\mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}$ . Then a random x is sampled and the goal of the adversary is to find this x. Throughout the game, a polynomial  $p_i$  represents the group element  $g^{p_i(x)}$ . Hence  $p_0$  represents the identity element of the group,  $p_1$  represents the generator g, and  $p_2$  represents  $g^x$ . We think of the subscript of a polynomial as the adversary's label for the corresponding group element. The variable t tracks the highest label the adversary has used so far.

We let  $\mathcal{P}^i$  denote the set of the first i polynomials that have been generated and  $\mathcal{P}^i_x$  be the set of their outputs when evaluated on x. The oracle INIT tells the adversary if x happened to be 0 or 1 by returning the appropriate value of  $\ell$ . The oracle OP allows the adversary to perform multi-exponentiations. It specifies a vector  $\mathbf{j}$  of labels for group elements and a vector  $\mathbf{\alpha}$  of coefficients. The variable t is incremented and its new value serves as the label for the group element  $\prod_i g_{\mathbf{j}[i]}^{\alpha[i]}$  where  $g_{\mathbf{j}[i]}$  is the group element with label  $\mathbf{j}[i]$ , i.e.,  $g^{p_{\mathbf{j}[i]}(x)}$ . The returned value  $\ell$  is set equal to the prior label of a group element which equals this new group element (if  $\ell = t$ , then no prior labels represented the same group element).

The only coins of this game are the choice of x which we think of as  $c_0$ . In  $\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{dl}}$ , the adversary is never told when two labels it handles non-trivially represent the same group element so the view of  $\mathcal{A}$  is independent of  $c_0$ , as desired.<sup>7</sup> Because the view of  $\mathcal{A}$  is independent of x when b=1 we have that  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{dl}}(\mathcal{A})]=1/|\mathbb{G}|$ .

From the fundamental lemma of game playing,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{dl}}(\mathcal{A})] \leqslant \Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{dl}}(\mathcal{A}) \text{ sets bad}] + \Pr[\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{dl}}(\mathcal{A})] = \Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{cr}}(\mathcal{A}) \text{ sets bad}] + 1/|\mathbb{G}|$$

Now thinking of the coins of  $\mathcal{A}$  as fixed, this fixes a value of  $Q_1$  and a length  $Q_1$  transcript of queries that would occur in  $\mathsf{H}_1^{\mathsf{dl}}(\mathcal{A})$ . This in turn fixes the set of polynomials  $\mathcal{P}^{Q_1+2}$ . The flag bad will be set iff any of polynomials in the set

$${p(\cdot) - r(\cdot)|p \neq r \in \mathcal{P}^{Q_1+2}}$$

have the value 0 when evaluated on x. Note these polynomials are non-zero and have degree at most 1. Thus, applying the Schwartz-Zippel lemma and a union bound we get,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}|Q_1 = q] \leqslant \binom{q+3}{2} \cdot (1/|\mathbb{G}|) \leqslant 6q^2/|\mathbb{G}|.$$

<span id="page-13-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup> Two labels trivially represent the same group element if they correspond to identical polynomials.

{14}------------------------------------------------

Note the bound trivially holds when q=0, since  $\Pr[\mathsf{bad}|Q_1=q]=0$ , so we have assumed  $q\geqslant 1$  for the second bound. Defining  $\delta(q)=6q^2/|\mathbb{G}|$  we have that  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{dl}}$  is  $\delta$ -bounded, so Theorem 1 gives

$$\Pr[\mathsf{H}_0^{\mathsf{dI}}(\mathcal{A})] \leqslant 5\sqrt[2]{\frac{6 \cdot \mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{A}}]^2}{|\mathbb{G}|}} + \frac{1}{|\mathbb{G}|}.$$

## <span id="page-14-0"></span>4 Expected-Time Indistinguishability Proofs From Point-wise Proximity

In this section we show that a basic version of the H-Coefficient Method known as point-wise proximity can be generically extended to give tight bounds for expected-time attackers. Similar to Section 3, these result extend a  $\Delta \cdot q^d/N$  bound when q is the worst-case runtime of the adversary to an  $O(\sqrt[d]{\Delta \cdot q^d/N})$  bound when q is the expected runtime of the adversary.

We start in Section 4.1 by describing the abstract framework we will use for these indistinguishability proof and recalling the H-coefficient method and point-wise proximity technique. Then in Section 4.2 we provide the main result of this section that showing point-wise proximity proofs can be generically extended to cover expected-time attackers. Finally in Section 4.2 we recall some applications where security can be proven using point-wise proximity.

### <span id="page-14-1"></span>4.1 Indistinguishability Framework

MODEL AND NOTATION. For this section we will consider a distinguisher D that interacts with some game F or G. To discuss the H-Coefficient method it will be convenient to following the random system abstraction of Mauer [18] for D, F, and G. That is, rather than modeling them as computational entities we will only reason about them via the distributions they induce over outputs.

Fix sets  $\mathcal{X}$  and  $\mathcal{Y}$  which are, respectively, the set of queries D may make to a game and the set of responses a game may return. A game F defines a set of probability functions  $\{p_i^F\}_{i\in\mathbb{N}_{>0}}$ , where  $p_i^F: \mathcal{X}^i \times \mathcal{Y}^{i-1} \times \mathcal{Y} \to [0,1]$  for each i and for any  $x^i \in \mathcal{X}^i$  and  $y^{i-1} \in \mathcal{Y}^{i-1}$  it holds that  $\sum_{y\in\mathcal{Y}} p_i^F(x^i,y^{i-1},y) = 1$ . Similarly, a distinguisher D defines a set of probability functions  $\{p_i^D\}_{i\in\mathbb{N}_{>0}}$ , where this time  $p_i^D: \mathcal{X}^{i-1} \times \mathcal{Y}^{i-1} \times \mathcal{X} \to [0,1]$  for each i and for any  $x^{i-1} \in \mathcal{X}^{i-1}$  and  $y^{i-1} \in \mathcal{Y}^{i-1}$  it holds that  $\sum_{x\in\mathcal{X}} p_i^D(x^{i-1},y^{i-1},x) = 1$ .

Typically, analysis is done assuming a fixed upper bound q on the number of queries made by D which is captured by only defining  $p_i^D$  for  $i \in [q]$ . To model expected time D we will think of there being some special value Fin so that  $x_i = \text{Fin}$  indicates that this is D's final query.

For any transcript  $\tau = (x_1, y_1, \dots, x_q, y_q)$  define  $|\tau| = q$ . Let  $\mathcal{T}$  denote the set of  $\tau$  for which the last query  $x_{|\tau|}$  is FIN (and no earlier queries were FIN). We refer to  $\mathcal{T}$  as the set of complete transcripts, because these transcripts represent a complete interaction between a distinguisher and a game. For any transcript  $\tau$  define  $p^F(\tau) = \prod_{i=1}^q p_i^F(x^i, y^{i-1}, y_i)$  and  $p^D(\tau) = \prod_{i=1}^q p_i^D(x^{i-1}, y^{i-1}, x_i)$  where  $x^i = (x_1, \dots, x_i)$  and  $y^i = (y_1, \dots, y_i)$  for each i.

We think of a distinguisher D and game F as inducing a distribution over the set of complete transcripts. We let  $T_F^D$  denote the random variable distributed according to this distribution, which is defined by  $\Pr[T_F^D = \tau] = p^D(\tau) \cdot p^F(\tau)$  for any  $\tau \in \mathcal{T}$ . Note that the random variable  $|T_F^D|$  captures the number of oracle queries made by D when interacting with F, and thus  $\mathsf{E}[|T_F^D|]$  is the expected number of oracle queries it makes in this interaction. We will require that after a complete interaction with a game, the distinguisher guesses a bit (thought of as a guess whether it is interacting with F or G). To make this explicit we can require that for every  $\tau = (x_1, y_1, \dots, x_q, y_q) \in \mathcal{T}$  we have  $p_{q+1}^D(x^q, y^q, 1) + p_{q+1}^D(x^q, y^q, 0) = 1$ . We use this to define the distribution over the bit output by D when interacting with F, denoted  $D(T_F^D)$ , in the obvious way. We define  $\mathsf{Adv}_{G,F}^{\mathsf{dist}}(D) = \mathsf{Pr}[D(T_G^D) = 1] - \mathsf{Pr}[D(T_F^D) = 1]$ .

In typical analysis using worst-case runtime it is common to note that one can assume D is deterministic (i.e. that  $p_i^D(x^{i-1}, y^{i-1}, x) \in \{0, 1\}$  always holds) without loss of generality. We cannot do so when we only have a bound on the expected runtime of D because the number of oracle queries it makes may depend on its randomness.

{15}------------------------------------------------

When games F and G are clear from context, we define

$$X^{+} = \{ \tau \in \mathcal{T} : p^{G}(\tau) > p^{F}(\tau) \}$$

$$X^{-} = \{ \tau \in \mathcal{T} : p^{G}(\tau) < p^{F}(\tau) \}$$

$$X^{=} = \{ \tau \in \mathcal{T} : p^{G}(\tau) = p^{F}(\tau) \}.$$

Thus  $X^+$  is the set of complete transcripts more likely to occur when a distinguisher is interacting with  $G.^8$  Similarly,  $X^-$  is the set of complete transcripts more likely when interacting with F and  $X^=$  is the set of complete transcripts that are equally likely. Note that  $\mathcal{T} = X^+ \sqcup X^- \sqcup X^=$ .

H-COEFFICIENT METHOD AND POINT-WISE PROXIMITY. The well-known H-Coefficient Method [5,10,21] gives a framework for obtaining a bound on  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{G,F}(D)$  from a worst-case bound on the number of oracle queries that the distinguisher D makes. Let q denote this worst-case bound.

In this method, one first defines sets Good and Bad so that  $X^+ = \text{Good} \sqcup \text{Bad}$ . Then one shows that  $1 - p^F(\tau)/p^G(\tau) \le \varepsilon(q)$  for all  $\tau \in \text{Good}$  with  $|\tau| = q$  and that  $\Pr[T_G^D \in \text{Bad}] \le \delta(q)$ . From these, some simple calculations show that  $\mathsf{Adv}_{G,F}^{\mathsf{dist}}(D) \le \varepsilon(q) + \delta(q)$  for any distinguisher D making q queries.

For some applications it is known that one can use a more basic version of the H-coefficient method in which  $X^+ = \text{Good}$ . Hence,  $\Pr[T_G^D \in \text{Bad}] = 0$  trivially and one gets  $\operatorname{Adv}_{G,F}^{\operatorname{dist}}(D) \leqslant \varepsilon(q)$  for any D making at most q queries by showing that  $1 - p^F(\tau)/p^G(\tau) \leqslant \varepsilon(|\tau|)$  for all  $\tau \in X^+$ . This version of the H-coefficient method was referred to as *point-wise proximity* by Hoang and Tessaro [14]. It was used by Bernstein [5], Patarin [22], and Chang and Nandi [9].

The main result of this section shows that for some choices of  $\varepsilon$ , a bound of  $1 - p^F(\tau)/p^G(\tau) \le \varepsilon(|\tau|)$  for all  $\tau \in X^+$ , automatically gives a bound on  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{F,G}(D)$  based on the expected number of oracle queries that D makes. We were unable to obtain an expected time result analogous to the full H-coefficient method and leave this as an interesting question for future work.

#### <span id="page-15-0"></span>4.2 Expected-time Analysis from Point-wise Proximity

Now we move to bounding the advantage of expected time adversaries. Let (F,G) be a pair of games. We will say they are  $\varepsilon$ -restricted if  $1-p^F(\tau)/p^G(\tau) \le \varepsilon(|\tau|)$  for all  $\tau \in X^+$ . We will, in particular, be interested in the case that  $\varepsilon(q) = \Delta \cdot q^d/N$  for some  $\Delta$ , d, and N.

The following theorem gives our bound on  $Adv_{G,F}^{dist}$  for  $\varepsilon$ -restricted (F,G) based on the expected runtime of the distinguisher. This expected runtime may differ in F and G, so our result is written to apply to the expected runtime with respect to either game.

<span id="page-15-2"></span>**Theorem 2.** Let  $\varepsilon(q) = \Delta \cdot q^d/N$  for  $\Delta, d, N \in \mathbb{N}_{>0}$  satisfying  $N \geqslant \Delta \cdot 6^d$ . Let (F, G) be an  $\varepsilon$ -restricted pair of games. Let  $H \in \{F, G\}$  and  $\overline{H} \in \{F, G\} \setminus \{H\}$ . Then for any B,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(B) \leqslant 5\sqrt[d]{\frac{\varDelta \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_H^B|]^d}{N}} = 5\sqrt[d]{\varepsilon(\mathsf{E}[|T_H^B|])}.$$

In Section 5, we give a simple attack which shows that the d-th root is necessary in the bound.

*Proof.* The theorem follows from the following three lemmas. The proofs of these lemmas are, respectively, given in Section 4.6, Section 4.5, and Section 4.4.

<span id="page-15-3"></span>**Lemma 4.** Let  $\varepsilon$ ,  $\Delta$ , d, N, F, G, H,  $\overline{H}$ , and B be defined as in Theorem 2. Let  $u = 2^{-d}$  and  $U = \left\lfloor \sqrt[d]{Nu/\Delta} \right\rfloor$ . Then there exists D such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(B) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(D) + 3\sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_H^B|].$$

For any I, the bound  $|T_I^D| \leqslant U$  always holds and additionally  $\mathsf{E}[|T_I^D|] \leqslant \mathsf{E}[|T_I^B|]$ .

<span id="page-15-4"></span><span id="page-15-1"></span><sup>8</sup> Technically, such transcripts will be equally likely if  $p^D(\tau) = 0$ .

{16}------------------------------------------------

**Lemma 5.** Let F and G be defined as in Theorem 2. Let D be a distinguisher. Then,

$$\mathsf{Adv}_{G,F}^{\mathsf{dist}}(D) \leqslant (\Delta/N) \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_G^D|^d].$$

<span id="page-16-0"></span>**Lemma 6.** Let (F,G) be  $\varepsilon$ -restricted and  $d \in \mathbb{N}_{>0}$ . Let D be a distinguisher such that  $\varepsilon(|T_G^D|) \leq u$  always holds for some  $u \in (0,1)$ . Then,

$$\mathsf{E}[|T_G^D|^d] \le (1-u)^{-1} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_F^D|^d].$$

First suppose H = G. Then from Lemma 4 we get  $\mathsf{Adv}_{G,F}^{\mathsf{dist}}(B) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}_{G,F}^{\mathsf{dist}}(D) + 3\sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_G^B|]$  for D making at most U queries. Applying Lemma 5 gives  $\mathsf{Adv}_{G,F}^{\mathsf{dist}}(D) \leqslant (\Delta/N) \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_G^D|^d]$ . Noting that  $u \in (0,1)$ , we have  $\mathsf{E}[|T_G^D|^d] \leqslant (1-u)^{-1} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_G^D|^d]$ .

Now suppose H=F. Then from Lemma 4 we get  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{F,G}(B) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{F,G}(D) + 3\sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T^B_F|]$  for D making at most U queries. Let  $\overline{D}$  be the adversary which runs just like D, but outputs the opposite bit. Then  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{F,G}(D) = \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{G,F}(\overline{D})$ . Applying Lemma 5 gives  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{G,F}(\overline{D}) \leqslant (\Delta/N) \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T^{\overline{D}}_{G}|^d]$ . Clearly  $|T^{\overline{D}}_{G}| = |T^D_G|$ . From Lemma 6 we have  $\mathsf{E}[|T^D_G|^d] \leqslant (1-u)^{-1} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T^D_F|^d]$ .

So in either case we have  $\mathsf{Adv}_{H,\overline{H}}^{\mathsf{dist}}(B) \leqslant (\Delta/N) \cdot (1-u)^{-1} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_H^D|^d] + 3\sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_H^B|]$ . Now we can emulate calculations from the end of the proof of Theorem 1 to show that if  $u = 2^{-d}$ , then

$$(\Delta/N) \cdot (1-u)^{-1} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_H^D|^d] \leqslant 2\mathsf{E}[|T_H^D|] \sqrt[d]{\Delta/N}.$$

Plugging this in (and using  $E[|T_H^D|] \leq E[|T_H^B|]$  from the construction of D) gives the stated bound.

#### <span id="page-16-1"></span>4.3 Example Applications of Point-wise Proximity

Because Theorem 2 is so generic, we can automatically extend existing proofs using point-wise proximity for worst-case attackers to apply to expected-time attackers.

SWITCHING LEMMA. One application of point-wise proximity is the Switching Lemma. Fix  $N \in \mathbb{N}$  and let F be a game returns uniformly random  $x \in [N]$  sampled with replacement and G be the game that returns uniformly random  $x \in [N]$  sampled without replacement. Let  $\mathsf{Adv}_N^{\mathsf{sl}}(\cdot) = \mathsf{Adv}_{F,G}^{\mathsf{dist}}(\cdot)$  The standard switching lemma says that if  $\mathcal{A}$  makes at most q oracle queries, then  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sl}}(A) \leqslant q^2/2N$ . This result has numerous applications, including proving the collision-resistance of a random oracle and bounding the difference between the PRP and PRF security of a block cipher.

Of particular interest to us is the proof of Chang and Nandi [9], which proved it using point-wise proximity. In particular, their proof shows that (F, G) is  $\varepsilon$ -restricted for  $\varepsilon(q) = q^2/2N$ . Thus, we can refer to Theorem 2 to obtain that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sl}}_N(A) \leqslant 5 \sqrt{\frac{\mathsf{E}[|T_F^A|]^2}{2N}}.$$

KEY-ALTERNATING CIPHERS. Hoang and Tessaro [14] used point-wise proximity to study the security of key-alternating ciphers. A key-alternating cipher is a construction of a blockcipher generalizing the Even-Mansour construction [11]. It constructs a blockcipher  $KAC[\pi, t] : (\{0, 1\}^n)^{t+1} \times \{0, 1\}^n \to \{0, 1\}^n$  from a public family of permutations  $\pi : \mathbb{N} \times \{0, 1\}^n \to \{0, 1\}^n$ .  $KAC[\pi, t](K, x)$  returns  $y_t$  defined by:  $y_0 \leftarrow x \oplus K_0$  and  $y_i \leftarrow \pi(i, y_{i-1}) \oplus K_i$  for i = 1, ..., t.

Let F and G be the games defining strong PRP security of  $\mathrm{KAC}[\pi,t]$  in the random permutation model where F is the real game and G is the ideal game. Let  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sprp}}_{n,t}(\cdot) = \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{F,G}(\cdot)$ . Hoang and Tessaro proved that (F,G) are  $\varepsilon$ -restricted for  $\varepsilon(q) = 4^t q^{t+1}/(t2^n)^t$ . We can apply Theorem 2 to obtain that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sprp}}_{n,t}(A) \leqslant 5 \left( \frac{4^t \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_F^A|]^{t+1}}{(t2^n)^t} \right)^{1/(t+1)}.$$

Hoang and Tessaro additionally used point-wise proximity to study the security of XOR cascades for blockcipher key-length extension. Again, their proofs for worst-case adversaries automatically give us expected-time bounds.

{17}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-17-2"></span>4.4 Proof of Lemma 4

Let  $u=2^{-d}$  and  $U=\left\lfloor \sqrt[d]{Nu/\Delta}\right\rfloor$ . Note that  $\varepsilon(U)\leqslant u$ . Let D be a distinguisher that runs exactly like B, but halts early and outputs 0 if B attempts to make more than U oracle queries. Clearly for this D the bound the bound  $|T_I^D|\leqslant U$  always holds and additionally  $\mathsf{E}[|T_I^D|]\leqslant \mathsf{E}[|T_I^B|]$  for any game I.

Now we can bound the advantage of B by the advantage of D and the probability that B ever makes more than U queries, obtaining

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(B) &= \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_H) = 1] - \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_{\overline{H}}) = 1] \\ &= \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_H) = 1 \wedge |T^B_H| \leqslant U] + \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_H) = 1 \wedge |T^B_H| > U] \\ &- \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_{\overline{H}}) = 1 \wedge |T^B_{\overline{H}}| \leqslant U] - \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_{\overline{H}}) = 1 \wedge |T^B_{\overline{H}}| > U] \\ &= \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(D) + \mathsf{Pr}[D(T^B_H) = 1 \wedge |T^B_H| > U] \\ &- \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_{\overline{H}}) = 1 \wedge |T^B_{\overline{H}}| > U] \\ &\leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(D) + \mathsf{Pr}[|T^B_H| > U]. \end{split}$$

By Markov's inequality, we have that

$$\Pr[|T_H^B| > U] \leqslant \mathsf{E}[|T_H^B|]/U.$$

Furthermore, from calculation used in the proof of Theorem 1 we have that if  $u=2^{-d}$  and  $N \ge \Delta \cdot 6^d$ , then  $U^{-1} \le 3\sqrt[d]{\Delta/N}$ . This gives the bound of

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(B) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(D) + 3\sqrt[d]{\Delta/N} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_H^B|],$$

completing the proof.

#### <span id="page-17-1"></span>4.5 Proof of Lemma 5

This lemma follows from the following calculation

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{G,F}(D) \leqslant & \sum_{\tau \in X^+} p^D(\tau) \cdot p^G(\tau) - p^D(\tau) \cdot p^F(\tau) \\ &= \sum_{\tau \in X^+} p^D(\tau) \cdot p^G(\tau) \cdot \left(1 - p^F(\tau)/p^G(\tau)\right) \\ &\leqslant & \sum_{\tau \in X^+} p^D(\tau) \cdot p^G(\tau) \cdot \varepsilon(|\tau|) \\ &\leqslant & \sum_{\tau \in T} p^D(\tau) \cdot p^G(\tau) \cdot \varepsilon(|\tau|) \\ &= (\Delta/N) \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T^D_G|^d]. \end{split}$$

For the second step we needed that  $p^G(\tau) \neq 0$  for  $\tau \in X^+$ .

#### <span id="page-17-0"></span>4.6 Proof of Lemma 6

Recall we have  $u \in (0,1)$  and  $\varepsilon(|\tau|) \leq u$  (for all  $\tau \in \mathcal{T}$  with  $p^D(\tau) \neq 0$ ). For  $H \in \{F,G\}$  and  $o \in \{+,-,=\}$  we define,

$$S_H^{\circ} = \sum_{\tau \in X^{\circ}} p^D(\tau) \cdot p^H(\tau) \cdot |\tau|^d.$$

{18}------------------------------------------------

Note then that  $\mathsf{E}[|T_H^D|^d] = S_H^+ + S_H^- + S_H^=$  since  $X^+, X^-$ , and  $X^=$  partition  $\mathcal{T}$ . Now  $S_G^= = S_F^=$  and  $S_G^- \leqslant S_F^-$  follow immediately from the definitions of  $X^-$  and  $X^=$ . To compare  $S_G^+$  and  $S_F^+$  we first note that for  $\tau \in X^+$  we have that  $p^G(\tau)/p^F(\tau) \leqslant (1-u)^{-1}.9$  Then we obtain that

$$\begin{split} S_G^+ &= \sum_{\tau \in X^+} p^D(\tau) \cdot p^G(\tau) \cdot |\tau|^d = \sum_{\tau \in X^+} p^D(\tau) \cdot p^F(\tau) \cdot |\tau|^d \cdot (p^G(\tau)/p^F(\tau)) \\ &\leqslant (1-u)^{-1} \sum_{\tau \in X^+} p^D(\tau) \cdot p^F(\tau) \cdot |\tau|^d = (1-u)^{-1} S_F^+. \end{split}$$

Note that  $(1-u)^{-1} > 1$  will hold because  $u \in (0,1)$ . Then we have

$$\mathsf{E}[|T_G^D|^d] = S_G^+ + S_G^- + S_G^- \le (1-u)^{-1}S_F^+ + S_F^- + S_F^-$$

$$\le (1-u)^{-1}(S_F^+ + S_F^- + S_F^-) = (1-u)^{-1} \cdot \mathsf{E}[|T_F^D|^d].$$

This completes the proof.

## <span id="page-18-0"></span>5 Tightness of Expected-Time Bounds

In this section we establish that Theorem 1 and Theorem 2 are tight. In particular, we observe that the d-th root was necessary. The basic idea for both is to consider an adversary that flips a coin, halting immediately if it gets tails and otherwise performing an attack (using many queries) that achieves constant advantage.

TIGHTNESS OF THEOREM 1. Suppose there exists  $\mathcal{A}$  making exactly  $q_{\mathcal{A}} = \sqrt[d]{N}$  oracle queries such that  $\Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}] \geqslant \varepsilon \in [0,1].^{10}$  Let  $0 \leqslant q \leqslant q_{\mathcal{A}}$  be a given bound on the expected runtime of an adversary. Then let  $\mathcal{B}$  be the adversary that samples d from  $\{0,1\}$  so that  $\Pr[d=1] = q/q_{\mathcal{A}}$  and halts immediately if d=0. Otherwise, it runs  $\mathcal{A}$ . Note that  $\mathsf{E}[Q_0^{\mathcal{B}}] = \mathsf{E}[Q_1^{\mathcal{B}}] = q_{\mathcal{A}} \cdot \mathsf{Pr}[d=1] = q$ . Then,

$$\begin{split} \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}] &= \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}} \wedge d = 0] + \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{B}}|d = 1] \Pr[d = 1] \\ &= 0 + \Pr[\mathsf{BAD}^{\mathcal{A}}] \cdot q/q_{\mathcal{A}} \\ &\geqslant \varepsilon q/\sqrt[d]{N} = \varepsilon \cdot \sqrt[d]{q^d/N}. \end{split}$$

TIGHTNESS OF THEOREM 2. Suppose there exists A making exactly  $q_A = \sqrt[d]{N}$  oracle queries such that  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(A) \geqslant \varepsilon \in [0,1]$ . Let  $0 \leqslant q \leqslant q_A$  be a given bound on the expected runtime of an adversary. Then let B be the adversary that samples d from  $\{0,1\}$  so that  $\mathsf{Pr}[d=1] = q/q_A$  and is halts immediately with output 0 if d=0. Otherwise, it runs A. Note that  $\mathsf{E}[|T_F^B|] = \mathsf{E}[|T_G^B|] = q_A \cdot \mathsf{Pr}[d=1] = q$ . Then,

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(A) &= \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_G) = 1] - \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_F) = 1] \\ &= \mathsf{Pr}[d = 1] \cdot (\mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_G) = 1 | d = 1] - \mathsf{Pr}[B(T^B_F) = 1 | d = 1]) \\ &= q/q_A(\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{H,\overline{H}}(A)) \\ &\geqslant \varepsilon q/\sqrt[d]{N} = \varepsilon \cdot \sqrt[d]{q^d/N}. \end{split}$$

## <span id="page-18-3"></span>6 Concrete Security For A Forking Lemma

In this section we apply our techniques to obtaining concrete bounds on the soundness of proof systems. Of particular interest to us will be proof systems that can be proven to achieve a security notion known as witness-extended emulation via a very general "Forking Lemma" introduced by Bootle, Cerulli, Chaidos,

<span id="page-18-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>9</sup> This follows from  $1 - p^F(\tau)/p^G(\tau) \le \varepsilon(|\tau|) \le u < 1$  for such  $\tau$ .

<span id="page-18-2"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>10</sup> Think of  $\varepsilon$  as some large constant probability, e.g.  $\varepsilon = 1/2$ .

{19}------------------------------------------------

| Π              | Πpπ, u, auxq returns true iff         | Name                  |
|----------------|---------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| Πwit           | pu, auxq P Rπ                         | Valid Witness         |
| G,n<br>Π<br>dl | śn<br>auxi<br>π<br>" 1G<br>i<br>i"0   | Discrete Log Relation |
| n<br>Π<br>val  | aux is a valid n-tree for u           | Valid Tree            |
| n<br>Π         | nocol aux has no challenge collisions | Collision-Free Tree   |

<span id="page-19-1"></span>Fig. 6. Predicates we use. Other predicates Πbind and Πrsa are only discussed informally.

Groth, and Petit (BCCGP) [\[6\]](#page-27-1). Some examples include Bulletproofs [\[7\]](#page-27-2), Hyrax [\[28\]](#page-28-1), and Supersonic [\[8\]](#page-28-2). Our expected-time techniques arise naturally for these proof systems because witness-extended emulation requires the existence of an expected-time emulator E for a proof system which is given oracle access to a cheating prover and produces transcripts with the same distribution as the cheating prover, but additionally provides a witness w for the statement being proven whenever it outputs an accepting transcript.

In this section we use a new way of expressing witness-extended emulation as a special case of a more general notion we call predicate-extended emulation. The more general notion will serve as a clean, modular way to provide a concrete security version of the BCCGP forking lemma. This modularity allows us to hone in on the steps where our expected time analysis can be applied to give concrete bounds and avoid some technical issues with the original BCCGP formulation of the lemma.

In the BCCGP blueprint, the task of witness-extended emulation is divided into a generic tree-extended emulator which for any public coin proof system produces transcripts with the same distribution as a cheating prover together with a set of accepting transcripts satisfying a certain tree structure and an extractor for the particular proof system under consideration which can extract a witness from such a tree of transcripts. The original forking lemma of BCCGP technically only applied for extractors that always output a witness given a valid tree with no collisions. However, typical applications of the lemma require that the extractor be allowed to fail when the cheating prover has (implicitly) broken some presumed hard computational problem. Several works subsequent to BCCGP noticed this gap in the formalism [\[7,](#page-27-2)[28,](#page-28-1)[8\]](#page-28-2) and stated slight variants of the BCCGP forking lemma. However, these variants are still unsatisfactory. The variant lemmas in [\[7,](#page-27-2)[28\]](#page-28-1) technically only allows extractors which fail in extracting a witness with at most negligible probability for every tree (rather than negligible probably with respect to some efficiently samplable distribution over trees, as is needed). The more recent variant lemma in [\[8\]](#page-28-2) is stated in such a way that the rewinding analysis at the core of the BCCGP lemma is omitted from the variant lemma and (technically) must be shown separately anytime it is to be applied to a proof system. None of these issues represent issues with the security of the protocols analyzed in these works. The intended meaning of each of their proofs is clear from context and sound, these issues are just technical bugs with the formalism of the proofs. However, to accurately capture concrete security it will be important that we have a precise and accurate formalism of this. Our notion of predicate-extended emulation helps to enable this.

In Section [6.1,](#page-19-0) we provide the syntax of proof systems as well as defining our security goals of predicateextended emulation (a generalization of witness-extended emulation) and generator soundness (a generalization of the standard notion of soundness). Then in Section [6.2,](#page-21-0) we provide a sequence of simple lemmas and show how they can be combined to give our concrete security version on the forking lemma. Finally in Section [6.3,](#page-26-0) we discuss how our forking lemma can easily be applied to provide concrete bounds on the soundness of various existing proof systems. As a concrete example we give the first concrete security bound on the soundness of the Bulletproof zero-knowledge proof system for arithmetic circuits by B¨unz et al. [\[7\]](#page-27-2).

## <span id="page-19-0"></span>6.1 Syntax and Security of Proof Systems

Proof System. A proof system PS is a tuple PS " pS, R, P, V, µq specifying a setup algorithm S, a relation R, a prover P, verifier V, and µ P N. The setup algorithm outputs public parameters π. We say w is a witness for the statement u if pu, wq P Rπ. The prover (with input pu, wq) and the verifier (with input u) interact via 2µ ` 1 moves as shown in Fig. [7.](#page-20-0)

{20}------------------------------------------------

Here tr is the transcript of the interaction and  $d \in \{0,1\}$  is the decision of V (with d=1 representing acceptance and d=0 representing rejection). Perfect completeness requires that for all  $\pi$  and  $(u,w) \in R_{\pi}$ ,  $\Pr[d=1:(\cdot,d) \leftarrow \{P_{\pi}(u,w),V_{\pi}(u)\}] = 1$ . If PS is public-coin, then  $m_{2i-1}$  output by V each round is set equal to its random coins. In this case, we let  $V_{\pi}(u,tr) \in \{0,1\}$  denote V's decision after an interaction that produced transcript tr. Throughout this section we will implicitly assume that any proof systems under discussion is public-coin. We sometimes refer to the verifier's outputs as challenges.

PREDICATE-EXTENDED EMULATION. The proof systems we consider were all analyzed with the notion of witness-extended emulation [13,17]. This requires

```
\frac{\langle \mathsf{P}_{\pi}(u,w), \mathsf{V}_{\pi}(u) \rangle}{\sigma_{\mathsf{P}} \leftarrow \bot; \, \sigma_{\mathsf{V}} \leftarrow \bot; \, m_{-1} \leftarrow \bot} 

(m_{0}, \sigma_{\mathsf{P}}) \leftarrow P_{\pi}(u, w, m_{-1}, \sigma_{\mathsf{P}}) 

\text{For } i = 1, \dots, \mu \text{ do} 

(m_{2i-1}, \sigma_{\mathsf{V}}) \leftarrow V_{\pi}(u, m_{2i-2}, \sigma_{\mathsf{V}}) 

(m_{2i}, \sigma_{\mathsf{P}}) \leftarrow P_{\pi}(u, w, m_{2i-1}, \sigma_{\mathsf{P}}) 

tr \leftarrow (m_{-1}, m_{0}, m_{1}, \dots, m_{2\mu}) 

d \leftarrow V_{\pi}(m_{2\mu}, u, \sigma_{\mathsf{V}}) 

\text{Return } (tr, d)
```

<span id="page-20-0"></span>**Fig. 7.** Interaction between (honest) prover P and verifier V with public parameters  $\pi$ . Here tr is the transcript and  $d \in \{0, 1\}$  is the decision.

that for any efficient cheating prover  $P^*$  there exists an efficient emulator E which (given oracle access to  $P^*$  interacting with V and the ability to rewind them) produces transcripts with the same distribution as  $P^*$  and almost always provides a witness for the statement when the transcript it produces is accepting. We will capture witness-extended emulation as a special case of what we refer to as *predicate-extended emulation*. We cast the definition as two separate security properties. The first (emulation security) requires that E produces transcripts with the same distribution as  $P^*$ . The second (predicate extension) is parameterized by a predicate  $\Pi$  and requires that whenever E produces an accepting transcript, its auxiliary output must satisfy  $\Pi$ . As we will see, this treatment will allow a clean, modular treatment of how BCCGP and follow-up work [7,6,28,8] analyze witness-extended emulation.

We start by considering game  $H^{emu}$  defined in Fig. 8. It is parameterized by a public-coin proof system PS, emulator E, and bit b. The adversary consists of a cheating prover P\* and an attacker  $\mathcal{A}$ . This game measures  $\mathcal{A}$ 's ability to distinguish between a transcript generated by  $\langle P_{\pi}^*(u,s), V_{\pi}(u) \rangle$  and one generated by E. The emulator E is given access to oracles Next and Rew. The former has P\* and V perform a round of interaction and returns the messages exchanged. The latter rewinds the interaction to the prior round. We define the advantage function  $Adv_{PS,E}^{emu}(P^*,\mathcal{A}) = Pr[H_{PS,E,1}^{emu}(P^*,\mathcal{A})] - Pr[H_{PS,E,0}^{emu}(P^*,\mathcal{A})]$ . For the examples we consider there will be an E which (in expectation) performs a small number of oracle queries and does a small amount of local computation such that for any P\* and  $\mathcal{A}$  we have  $Adv_{PS,E}^{emu}(P^*,\mathcal{A}) = 0$ .

Note that creating a perfect emulator is trivial in isolation; E can just make  $\mu+1$  calls to NEXT to obtain a tr with the exactly correct distribution. Where it gets interesting is that we will consider a second, auxiliary output of E and insist that it satisfies some predicate  $\Pi$  whenever tr is an accepting transcript. The adversary wins whenever tr is accepting, but the predicate is not satisfied. This is captured by the game  $H^{\text{predext}}$  shown in Fig. 8. We define  $Adv_{\text{PS},\text{E},\Pi}^{\text{predext}}(P^*,\mathcal{A}) = Pr[H_{\text{PS},\text{E},\Pi}^{\text{predext}}(P^*,\mathcal{A})]$ . Again this notion is trivial in isolation; E can just output rejecting transcripts. Hence, both security notions need to be considered together with respect to the same E.

The standard notion of witness-extended emulating is captured by the predicate  $\Pi_{\text{wit}}$  which checks if aux is a witness for u, that is,  $\Pi_{\text{wit}}(\pi, u, \text{aux}) = ((u, \text{aux}) \in \mathsf{R}_{\pi})$ . Later we will define some other predicates. All the predicates we will make use of are summarized in Fig. 6. A proof system with a good witness-extended emulator under some computational assumption may be said to be an argument of knowledge.

HARD PREDICATES. One class of predicates to consider are those which embed some computational problem about the public parameter  $\pi$  that is assumed to be hard to solve. We will say that  $\Pi$  is witness-independent if its output does not depend on its second input u. For example, if S outputs of length n vector of elements from a group  $\mathbb{G}$  (we will denote this setup algorithm by  $S^n_{\mathbb{G}}$ ) we can consider the predicate  $\Pi^{\mathbb{G},n}_{dl}$  which checks if aux specifies a non-trivial discrete log relation. This predicate is useful for the analysis of a variety of

<span id="page-20-1"></span>We include  $m_{-1} = \perp$  in tr as a notational convenience.

{21}------------------------------------------------

```
\frac{\text{Game H}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},b}^{\mathsf{emu}}(\mathsf{P}^*, \mathcal{A})}{i \leftarrow 0; (\mathsf{S}, \cdot, \cdot, \mathsf{V}, \mu) \leftarrow \mathsf{PS}}
                                                                                                                                  Next()
                                                                                                                                 Require i \leq \mu
                                                                                                                                 If i = 0 then
 \pi \leftarrow S
                                                                                                                                         \sigma_{\mathsf{P}}^0 \leftarrow \bot; \, \sigma_{\mathsf{V}}^1 \leftarrow \bot; \, m_{-1} \leftarrow \bot
 (u, s, \sigma_{\mathcal{A}}) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(\pi)
(tr_1, \cdot) \leftarrow \$ \langle \mathsf{P}_\pi^*(u, s), \mathsf{V}_\pi(u) \rangle 

(tr_0, \cdot) \leftarrow \$ \mathsf{E}^{\mathrm{Next}, \mathrm{Rew}}(\pi, u)
                                                                                                                                  Else
                                                                                                                                          (m_{2i-1}, \sigma_{\mathsf{V}}^{i+1}) \leftarrow \mathsf{\$V}_{\pi}(u, m_{2i-2}, \sigma_{\mathsf{V}}^{i})
                                                                                                                                  (m_{2i}, \sigma_{\mathsf{P}}^{i+1}) \leftarrow P_{\pi}^{*}(u, s, m_{2i-1}, \sigma_{\mathsf{P}}^{i})
 b' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(tr_b, \sigma_{\mathcal{A}})
                                                                                                                                  m \leftarrow (m_{2i-1}, m_{2i})
 Return b' = 1
                                                                                                                                  i \leftarrow i + 1
\frac{\mathrm{Game}\ \mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A})}{i \leftarrow 0;\ (\mathsf{S},\cdot,\cdot,\mathsf{V},\mu) \leftarrow}\ \mathsf{PS}
                                                                                                                                  Return m
                                                                                                                                  Rew()
 π ←$ S
                                                                                                                                  Require i > 0
(u, s, \cdot) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(\pi)

(tr, \text{aux}) \leftarrow \mathcal{E}^{\text{Next}, \text{Rew}}(\pi, u)
                                                                                                                                  i \leftarrow i - 1
                                                                                                                                  Return \varepsilon
 Return (V_{\pi}(u, tr) \wedge \neg \Pi(\pi, u, aux))
```

<span id="page-21-1"></span>Fig. 8. Games defining predicate-extended emulation security of proof system PS.

| Game $H^{pred}_{S,\Pi}(\mathcal{A})$             | $\boxed{\operatorname{Game}H^{sound}_{PS,G}(P^*)}$                   | Game $H^{wit}_{PS,G}(\mathcal{B})$               |
|--------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| <del>π</del> ← \$ S                              | $\overline{(S,\cdot,\cdot,V,\cdot)}\leftarrowPS$                     | $\overline{(S,\cdot,\cdot,V,\cdot)}\leftarrowPS$ |
| $\operatorname{aux} \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(\pi)$ | π ← \$ S                                                             | <i>π</i> ←\$ S                                   |
| Return $\Pi(\pi, \varepsilon, aux)$              |                                                                      | $(u,s) \leftarrow G(\pi)$                        |
|                                                  | $(\cdot,d) \leftarrow \$ \langle P_{\pi}^*(u,s), V_{\pi}(u) \rangle$ | $w \leftarrow \mathcal{B}(\pi, u, s)$            |
|                                                  | Return $d = 1$                                                       | Return $(u, w) \in R_{\pi}$                      |

<span id="page-21-2"></span>Fig. 9. Left. Game defining hardness of satisfying predicate  $\Pi$ . Right. Games defining soundness of proof system PS with respect to instance generator G and difficulty of finding witness for statements produced by G.

proof systems [6,7,28]. Other useful examples include: (i) if S output parameters for a commitment scheme with  $\Pi_{\text{bind}}$  that checks if aux specifies a commitment and two different opening for it [6,8,28] and (ii) if S outputs a group of unknown order together with an element of that group and  $\Pi_{\text{rsa}}$  checks if aux specifies a non-trivial root of that element [8].

Whether a witness-independent predicate  $\Pi$  is hard to satisfy given the output of S is captured by the game  $H^{\mathsf{pred}}$  shown on the left side of Fig. 9. We define  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{S},\Pi}(\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{S},\Pi}(\mathcal{A})]$ . Note, for example, that if  $\mathsf{S}^n_{\mathbb{G}}$  and  $\Pi^{\mathbb{G},n}_{\mathsf{dl}}$  is used, then this game is identical to discrete log relation security, i.e.,  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{S}^n_{\mathbb{G}},\Pi^{\mathbb{G},n}_{\mathsf{dl}}}(\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dl-rel}}_{\mathbb{G},n}(\mathcal{A})$  for any adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ .

GENERATOR SOUNDNESS. Consider the games shown on the right side of Fig. 9. Both are parameterized by a statement generator G which (given the parameters  $\pi$ ) outputs a statement u and some auxiliary information s about the statement. The first game  $H^{\text{sound}}$  measure how well a (potentially cheating) prover  $P^*$  can use s to convince V that u is true. The second game  $H^{\text{wit}}$  measures how well an adversary  $\mathcal{B}$  can produce a witness for u given s. We define  $Adv_{PS,G}^{\text{sound}}(P^*) = Pr[H_{PS,G}^{\text{sound}}(P^*)]$  and  $Adv_{PS,G}^{\text{wit}}(\mathcal{B}) = Pr[H_{PS,G}^{\text{wit}}(\mathcal{B})]$ .

Note that the standard notion of soundness (that proving false statements is difficult) is captured by considering G which always outputs false statements. In this case,  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{A}) = 0$  for all  $\mathcal{A}$ . In other contexts, it may be assumed that it is computationally difficult to find a witness for G's statement.

### <span id="page-21-0"></span>6.2 Concrete Security Forking Lemma

Now we will work towards proving our concrete security version of the BCCGP forking lemma. This lemma provides a general framework for how to provide a good witness-extended emulator for a proof system. First,

{22}------------------------------------------------

BCCGP showed how to construct a tree-extended emulator T which has perfect emulation security and (with high probability) outputs a set of transcripts satisfying a tree-like structure (defined later) whenever it outputs an accepting transcript. Then one constructs, for the particular proof system under consideration, an "extractor" X which given such a tree of transcripts can always produce a witness for the statement or break some other computational problem assumed to be difficult. Combining T and X appropriately gives a good witness-extended emulator.

Before proceeding to our forking lemma we will provide the necessary definitions of a tree-extended emulator and extractor, then state some simple lemmas that help build toward our forking lemma.

TRANSCRIPT TREE. Fix a proof system  $PS = (S, R, P, V, \mu)$  and let the vector  $\mathbf{n} = (n_1, \dots, n_{\mu}) \in \mathbb{N}_{>0}^{\mu}$  be given. Let  $\pi$  be an output of S and u be a statement. For  $h = 0, \dots, \mu$  we will inductively define an  $(n_{\mu-h+1}, \dots, n_{\mu})$ -tree of transcripts for  $(PS, \pi, u)$ . We will often leave some of  $(PS, \pi, u)$  implicit when they are clear from context.

First when h=0, a ()-tree is specified by a tuple  $(m_{2\mu-1},m_{2\mu},\ell)$  where  $m_{2\mu-1},m_{2\mu}\in\{0,1\}^*$  and  $\ell$  is an empty list. Now an  $(n_{\mu-(h+1)},\ldots,n_{\mu})$ -tree is specified by a tuple  $(m_{2(\mu-h)-1},m_{2(\mu-h)},\ell)$  where  $m_{2(\mu-h)-1},m_{2(\mu-h)}\in\{0,1\}^*$  and  $\ell$  is a length  $n_{\mu-(h+1)}$  list of  $(n_{\mu-h},\ldots,n_{\mu})$ -trees for  $(\mathsf{PS},\pi,u,tr)$ .

When discussing such trees we say their height is h. When  $h < \mu$  we will sometimes refer to it as a partial tree. We use the traditional terminology of nodes, children, parent, root, and leaf. We say the root node is at height h, its children are at height h - 1, and so on. The leaf nodes are thus each at height 0. If a node is at height h, then we say it is at depth  $\mu - h$ .

Every path from the root to a leaf in a height h tree gives a sequence  $(m_{2(\mu-h)-1}, m_{2(\mu-h)}, \ldots, m_{2\mu-1}, m_{2\mu})$  where  $(m_{2(\mu-i)-1}, m_{2(\mu-i)})$  are the pair from the node at height i. Now if we fix a transcript prefix  $tr' = (m_{-1}, m_0, \ldots, m_{2(\mu-h-1)-1}, m_{2(\mu-h-1)})$ , then we can think of tr' and the tree as inducing  $\prod_{i=1}^{\mu} n_i$  different transcripts  $tr = (m_0, \ldots, m_{2\mu-1}, m_{2\mu})$ , one for each path. We will say that the tree is valid for tr' if  $V_{\pi}(u, tr) = 1$  for each transcript tr induced by the tree. Note that tr' is an empty list when  $h = \mu$  so we can omit reference to tr' and simply refer to the tree as valid.

Suppose V's coins are drawn from  $S \times \mathbb{Z}_p$  for some set S and  $p \in \mathbb{N}$ . We will refer to the second component of its coins are the integer component. Let node be a parent node at height i > 0. If any two of its children have  $m_{2(\mu-i+1)-1}$  with identical integer components, then we say that node has a challenge collision. A tree has a challenge collision if any of its nodes have a challenge collision.

A tree-extractor emulator should return trees which are valid and have no challenge collision. We capture this with the predicates  $\Pi^n_{\mathsf{val}}$  and  $\Pi^n_{\mathsf{nocol}}$  defined by:

- $\Pi_{\text{val}}^{n}(\pi, u, \text{aux})$  returns true iff aux is a valid n-tree.
- $\Pi_{\text{nocol}}^{n}(\pi, u, \text{aux})$  returns true iff aux is an **n**-tree that does not have a challenge collision.

TREE-EXTENDED EMULATOR. Let a proof system  $PS = (S, R, P, V, \mu)$  and let  $(n_1, \dots, n_\mu) \in \mathbb{N}_{\geq 2}^\mu$  be given. Then consider the tree-extended emulator T given in Fig. 10 which comes from BCCGP. The sub-algorithms  $T_i$  are given a partial transcript tr. They call NEXT to obtain the next messages of a longer partial transcript and attempt to create a partial tree with is valid for it. This is done by repeatedly calling  $T_{i+1}$  to construct each branch of the tree. Should the first such call fail, then  $T_i$  will abort. Otherwise, it will continue calling  $T_{i+1}$  as many times as necessary to have  $n_{i+1}$  branches. The base case of this process is  $T_\mu$  which does not need children branches and instead just checks if its transcript is accepting, returning  $\bot$  to its calling procedure if not. The following result shows that T emulates any cheating prover perfectly and almost always outputs a valid tree whenever it outputs an accepting transcript. The technical core of the lemma is in the bound on the expected efficiency of T.

<span id="page-22-0"></span>**Lemma 7.** Let  $PS = (S, R, P, V, \mu)$  be a public coin proof system. Suppose V's challenges are uniformly drawn from  $S \times \mathbb{Z}_p$  for set S and  $p \in \mathbb{N}$ . Let  $\mathbf{n} = (n_1, \dots, n_{\mu}) \in \mathbb{N}_{>0}^{\mu}$  be given. Let  $N = \prod_{i=1}^{\mu} n_i$ . Let  $P^*$  be a cheating prover and A be an adversary. Define T as shown in Fig. 10. Then the following all hold:

- 1.  $Adv_{PS,T}^{emu}(P^*, A) = 0$
- 2.  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{T},\Pi^n_{\mathsf{val}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) = 0$

{23}------------------------------------------------

```
\mathsf{T}_{i}^{\mathrm{Next,Rew}}(\pi,u,tr) \ //0 \leqslant i < \mu
Algorithm \mathsf{T}^{\mathrm{Next},\mathrm{Rew}}(\pi,u)
\overline{(tr,\mathsf{tree})} \leftarrow \mathsf{sT}_0^{\mathsf{NEXT},\mathsf{REW}}(\pi,u,())
                                                                      \overline{(m_{2i-1}, m_{2i})} \leftarrow \text{NEXT}()
                                                                      tr.add(m_{2i-1}, m_{2i})
Return (tr, tree)
                                                                      (tr', \mathsf{tree}') \leftarrow \mathsf{T}^{\mathrm{Next}, \mathrm{Rew}}_{i+1}(\pi, u, tr)
\underline{\mathsf{T}_{\mu}^{\text{Next},\text{Rew}}(\pi,u,tr)}
                                                                      If tree' \neq \perp then
(m_{2\mu-1}, m_{2\mu}) \leftarrow \text{Next}()
                                                                            \ell \leftarrow (\mathsf{tree'})
                                                                           While |\ell| < n_{i+1} do (\cdot, \mathsf{tree'}) \leftarrow \mathsf{T}_{i+1}^{\mathsf{NEXT}, \mathsf{REW}}(\pi, u, tr)
tr.\mathsf{add}(m_{2\mu-1},m_{2\mu})
If V_{\pi}(u, tr) = 1 then
    \ell \leftarrow ()
                                                                                 If tree' \neq \perp then \ell.add(tree')
    tree \leftarrow (m_{2\mu-1}, m_{2\mu}, \ell)
                                                                           tree \leftarrow (m_{2i-1}, m_{2i}, \ell)
Else tree \leftarrow \bot
                                                                      Call Rew()
Call Rew()
                                                                      Return (tr', tree)
Return (tr, tree)
```

<span id="page-23-4"></span><span id="page-23-0"></span>Fig. 10. The BCCGP tree-extended emulator.

```
3. \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{T},\Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{nocol}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \leqslant 5\mu N/\sqrt{2p}
```

- 4. The expected number of times T executes  $V_{\pi}(u,\cdot)$  is N.
- 5. The expected number of queries that T makes to Next is less than  $\mu N + 1$ .<sup>12</sup> Exactly one of these queries is made while i = 1 in Next.

For comparison, in Appendix A we analyze a natural tree-extended emulator with a small bounded worst-case runtime. Its ability to produce valid trees is significantly reduced by its need to work within a small worst-case runtime, motivating the need for T to only be efficient in expected runtime.

Proof (of Lemma 7). All of the claims except the third follow from BCCGP's analysis of T. The advantage  $\mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{T},\Pi_{\mathsf{nocol}}^n}^{\mathsf{predext}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A})$  can be upper-bounded by the probability that the integer component of V's output is repeated across any of T's queries to NEXT. BCCGP bounded this probability by applying Markov's inequality to obtain an upper bound on T's running time and then applying the birthday bound to get an  $O(\mu N/\sqrt[3]{p})$  bound. We can instead apply our switching lemma analysis from Section 4.3 (or the techniques from our analysis of the collision resistance of a random oracle in Section 3.3) to obtain the stated bound because V will sample  $\mu N$  challenges in expectation.

EXTRACTORS. Let X be an algorithm and  $\Pi_1, \Pi_2$  be predicates. We say that X is a  $(\Pi_1, \Pi_2)$ -extractor if  $\Pi_1(\pi, u, \text{aux}) \Rightarrow \Pi_2(\pi, u, \mathsf{X}(\pi, u, \text{aux}))$ . Let T be an emulator. Then we define  $\mathsf{E}^\dagger[\mathsf{T}, \mathsf{X}]$  to be the emulator that on input  $(\pi, u)$  with oracle access to Next and Rew will first compute  $(tr, \text{aux}) \leftarrow \mathsf{T}^{\mathsf{Next}, \mathsf{Rew}}(\pi, u)$  and then returns  $(tr, \mathsf{X}(\pi, u, \text{aux}))$ . The following straightforward lemma relates the security of T and  $\mathsf{E}^\dagger$ .

**Lemma 8.** Let PS be a proof system, T be an emulator,  $\Pi_1$  and  $\Pi_2$  be predicates, P\* be a cheating prover, and  $\mathcal{A}$  be an adversary. Let X be a  $(\Pi_1, \Pi_2)$ -extractor. Then the following hold:

```
 \begin{array}{l} \text{-} \; \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{emu}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E}^{\dagger}[\mathsf{T},\mathsf{X}]}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{emu}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{T}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \\ \text{-} \; \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E}^{\dagger}[\mathsf{T},\mathsf{X}],\Pi_2}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{T},\Pi_1}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \end{array}
```

FORKING LEMMA. Finally, we can state and prove our concrete security version of the BCCGP forking lemma. It captures the fact that any protocol with a  $(\Pi_{\mathsf{val}}^n \wedge \Pi_{\mathsf{nocol}}^n, \Pi_{\mathsf{wit}} \vee \Pi^*)$ -extractor has a good witness-extended emulator (assuming  $\Pi^*$  is computationally difficult to satisfy).<sup>13</sup>

<span id="page-23-1"></span>More precisely, the expected number of queries that T makes to NEXT is the number of nodes in a  $(n_1, \ldots, n_{\mu})$ -tree. This is  $\sum_{i=0}^{\mu} \prod_{j=1}^{i} n_j$ , where  $\prod_{j=1}^{0} n_j = 1$ .

<span id="page-23-2"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>13</sup> The existence a  $(\Pi_{\text{val}}^n \wedge \Pi_{\text{nocol}}^n, \Pi_{\text{wit}}^n \vee \Pi^*)$ -extractor is a natural generalization of special soundness.

{24}------------------------------------------------

```
Adversary \mathcal{B}_{\mathsf{E}}(\pi)
i \leftarrow 0
(u, s, \cdot) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(\pi)
(\cdot, \operatorname{aux}) \leftarrow \mathcal{E}^{\operatorname{Next}, \operatorname{Rew}}(\pi, u)
Return aux
\frac{\operatorname{Next}, \operatorname{Rew}}{//\operatorname{Defined}} as in Fig. 8
```

<span id="page-24-0"></span>Fig. 11. Reduction adversary for Theorem 3.

Theorem 3 (Forking Lemma). Let  $PS = (S, R, P, V, \mu)$  be a public coin proof system. Suppose V's challenges are uniformly drawn from  $S \times \mathbb{Z}_p$  for set S and  $p \in \mathbb{N}$ . Let  $\mathbf{n} = (n_1, \dots, n_\mu) \in \mathbb{N}_{>0}^\mu$  be given. Let  $N = \prod_{i=1}^\mu n_i$ . Let  $P^*$  be a cheating prover and A be an adversary. Define T as shown in Fig. 10. Let  $\Pi^*$  be a witness-independent predicate. Let X be a  $(\Pi_{\mathsf{val}}^n \wedge \Pi_{\mathsf{nocol}}^n, \Pi_{\mathsf{wit}} \vee \Pi^*)$ -extractor. Let  $E = E^{\dagger}[T, X]$ . Let  $\mathcal{B}_E$  be as defined in Fig. 11. Then the following all hold:

- 1.  $Adv_{PS,E}^{emu}(P^*, A) = 0$
- 2.  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_{\mathsf{wit}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{PS},\Pi^*}(\mathcal{B}_{\mathsf{E}}) + 5\mu N/\sqrt{2p}$
- 3. The expected number of times T executes  $V_{\pi}(u,\cdot)$  (inside of E) is N.
- 4. The expected number of queries that E makes to Next is less than  $\mu N + 1$ . Exactly one of these queries is made while i = 1 in Next.
- 5. The expected runtime of  $\mathcal{B}_{\mathsf{E}}$  is approximately  $T_{\mathcal{A}} + Q_{\mathsf{E}} \cdot T_{\mathsf{P}} * + T_{\mathsf{E}}$  where  $T_x$  is the worst-case runtime of  $x \in \{\mathcal{A}, \mathsf{P}^*, \mathsf{E}\}$  and  $Q_{\mathsf{E}} < \mu N + 1$  is the expected number of queries that  $\mathsf{E}$  makes to  $\mathsf{NEXT}$  in  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS}, \mathsf{E}, \Pi^*}(\mathsf{P}^*, \mathcal{A})$ .

It will be useful to have the following simple lemma for comparing Adv<sup>predext</sup> with different choices of predicate that are related by logical operators. It can be derived from basic probability calculations.

**Lemma 9.** Let PS be a proof system, E be an emulator,  $\Pi_1$  and  $\Pi_2$  be predicates, P\* be a cheating prover, and  $\mathcal{A}$  be an adversary. Then,

<span id="page-24-1"></span>
$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_1 \,\vee\, \Pi_2}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_1 \,\wedge\, \Pi_2}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \\ &= \\ \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_1}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_2}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}). \end{split}$$

and

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_1}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_1 \vee \Pi_2}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\neg \Pi_2}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}).$$

Proof (of Theorem 3). Applying Lemma 7 and Lemma 8, and observing how E is constructed give us the first, third, and fourth claim. For the other claims we need to consider the adversary  $\mathcal{B}_{\mathsf{E}}$ . Note that it runs E just it would be run in  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi^*}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A})$ , so the distribution over  $(\pi,\mathrm{aux})$  is identical in  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{S},\Pi}(\mathcal{B}_{\mathsf{E}})$  as in that game. Furthermore, recall that  $\Pi^*$  is witness-independent, so it ignores its second input. It follows that,

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\neg\Pi^*}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) &= \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{V}_\pi(u,tr) \wedge \neg (\neg \Pi^*(\pi,u,\mathrm{aux})) \text{ in } \mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{predext}}] \\ &\leqslant \mathsf{Pr}[\Pi^*(\pi,u,\mathrm{aux}) \text{ in } \mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{predext}}] \\ &= \mathsf{Pr}[\Pi^*(\pi,\varepsilon,\mathrm{aux}) \text{ in } \mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{pred}}] = \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{S},\Pi}(\mathcal{B}_{\mathsf{E}}). \end{split}$$

The claimed runtime of  $\mathcal{B}$  is clear from its pseudocode (noting that the view of  $\mathsf{E}$  is distributed identically to its view in  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{predext}}$  so its expected number of NEXT queries is unchanged).

{25}------------------------------------------------

| Adversary $\mathcal{A}(\pi)$               | Adversary $\mathcal{B}(\pi, u, s)$                                                  |
|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| $\overline{(u,s)} \leftarrow \$ G(\pi)$    | $i \leftarrow 0$                                                                    |
| Return $(u, s, (\pi, u))$                  | $\left  (\cdot, w) \leftarrow s \; E^{\mathrm{Next}, \mathrm{Rew}}(\pi, u) \right $ |
| $\mathcal{A}(tr,\sigma_{\mathcal{A}})$     | Return w                                                                            |
| $(\pi, u) \leftarrow \sigma_{\mathcal{A}}$ | Next,Rew                                                                            |
| $b' \leftarrow V_{\pi}(u, tr)$             | $\sqrt{\text{Defined as in Fig. 8}}$                                                |
| Return $b'$                                |                                                                                     |

<span id="page-25-1"></span>Fig. 12. Adversaries used in Theorem 4.

For the second claim, we perform the calculations

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_{\mathsf{wit}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) &\leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_{\mathsf{wit}}\vee\Pi^*}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\neg\Pi^*}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \\ &= \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{val}}\wedge\Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{nocol}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{PS},\Pi^*}(\mathcal{B}) \\ &= \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{val}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{nocol}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{nocol}}}(\mathcal{B}) \\ &\leqslant 5\mu N/\sqrt{2p} + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{PS},\Pi^*}(\mathcal{B}). \end{split}$$

This sequence of calculation uses (in order) Lemma 9, Lemma 8 and the bound we just derived, Lemma 9 (again), and Lemma 7.

#### 6.3 Concrete Bounds on Soundness

Now we discuss how the forking lemma we just derived can be used to provide concrete bounds on soundness. First we make the generic observation that witness-extended emulation implies soundness. Then we discuss how we can use these results together with our expected-time generic group model bound on discrete log security to give concrete bounds on the soundness of various proof systems based on discrete log security, in particular giving the first concrete bound on the soundness of the Bulletproofs proof system for arithmetic circuits.

<span id="page-25-0"></span>WITNESS-EXTENDED EMULATION IMPLIES SOUNDNESS. The following theorem observes that finding a witness for u cannot be much more difficult that convincing a verifier u if an efficient witness-extended extractor exists.

**Theorem 4.** Let  $PS = (S, R, P, V, \mu)$  be a proof system, G be a statement generator, E be an emulator, and  $P^*$  be a cheating prover. Define A and B as shown in Fig. 12. Then,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sound}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathsf{P}^*) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{B}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{emu}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_{\mathsf{wit}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}).$$

The runtime of that A is roughly that of G plus that of V. The runtime of B is roughly that of E when given oracle access to  $P^*$  and V interacting.

*Proof* (Sketch). The use of V in  $\mathcal{A}$  ensures that the probability E outputs an accepting transcript must be roughly the same as the probability that P\* convinces V to accept. The difference between these probabilities is bounded by  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{emu}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A})$ . Then the  $\Pi_{\mathsf{wit}}$  security of E ensures that the probability it outputs a valid witness cannot be much less than the probability it outputs an accepting transcript. The difference between these probabilities is bounded by  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{predext}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{E},\Pi_{\mathsf{wit}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A})$ . Adversary  $\mathcal{B}$  just runs E to obtain a witness, so  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{B})$  is the probability that E would output a valid witness.

{26}------------------------------------------------

DISCRETE LOG PROOF SYSTEMS. A number of the proof systems in [6,7,28] were shown to have a  $(\Pi_{\text{val}}^n \land \Pi_{\text{nocol}}^n, \Pi_{\text{wit}} \lor \Pi_{\text{dl}}^{\mathbb{G},n})$ -extractor X. For any such proof system PS, Theorem 4 and Theorem 3 bound the soundness of PS by the discrete log relation security of  $\mathbb{G}$  against an expected-time adversary  $\mathcal{B}_{\mathsf{E}^{\dagger}[\mathsf{T},\mathsf{X}]}$ . Moreover, we can then apply Lemma 3 to tightly bound this adversary's advantage by the advantage of an expected-time adversary against normal discrete log security. We know how to bound the advantage of such an adversary in the generic group model from Section 3.3.

So to obtain a bound on the soundness of these proof systems in the generic group model we can just apply these results to the proof system. To obtain our final concrete security bound in the generic group model we need only to read the existing analysis of the proof system and extract the following parameters,

- p: the size of the set V draws the integer component of its challenges from
- $|\mathbb{G}|$ : the size of the group used
- $N = \prod_{i=1}^{\mu} n_i$ : the size of the tree that X requires
- $n \ge 1$ : the number of group elements in the discrete log relation instance
- $q_V$ : the number of multi-exponentiations V performs<sup>14</sup>
- $q_X$ : the number of multi-exponentiations that X performs

We say such a proof system  $PS = (S, R, P, V, \mu)$  and extractor X have parameters  $(p, |\mathbb{G}|, N, n, q_V, q_X)$ . We obtain the following theorem for such a system, bounding its soundness in the generic group model.

**Theorem 5.** Let  $PS = (S, R, P, V, \mu)$  be a proof system and X be an extractor that has parameters  $(p, |\mathbb{G}|, N, n, q_V, q_X)$ . Let G be a statement generator performing at most  $q_G$  multi-exponentiations and  $P^*$  be a cheating prover that performs at most  $q_{P^*}$  multi-exponentiations each time it is run. Define  $\mathcal{B}$  as shown in Fig. 12. Then in the generic group model we have,

<span id="page-26-4"></span>
$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sound}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathsf{P}^*) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{B}) + 5\sqrt{\frac{6 \cdot Q_{\mathcal{C}}^2}{|\mathbb{G}|}} + \frac{2}{|\mathbb{G}|} + \frac{5\mu N}{\sqrt{2p}}$$

where  $Q_{\mathcal{C}} = q_G + (\mu N + 1)q_{P^*} + q_{\mathsf{X}} + Nq_{\mathsf{V}} + n + 1$ . The runtime of  $\mathcal{B}$  is roughly that of  $\mathsf{E}^{\dagger}[\mathsf{T},\mathsf{X}]$  when given oracle access to  $\mathsf{P}^*$  and  $\mathsf{V}$  interacting.

*Proof.* The result follows by applying Theorem 4, Theorem 3, Lemma 3, and the generic group model bound from Section 3.3 as discussed above.

<span id="page-26-0"></span>Concrete security of Bulletproofs. Finally, we can use the above to obtain a concrete security bound on the soundness of the Bulletproofs proof system for arithmetic circuits of Bünz et al. [7]. To do so we only need to figure out the parameters discussed above. Suppose the proof system is being used for an arithmetic circuit with M multiplication gates. Using techniques of BCCGP [6] this is represented by a size M Hadamard product and  $L \leq 2M$  linear constraints. Then per Bünz et al. the proof system has the following parameters:

- $p = (|\mathbb{G}| 1)/2^{16}$
- $|\mathbb{G}|$  is the size of group  $\mathbb{G}$  in which discrete logs are assumed to be hard
- $-N = 7(L+1)M^3$
- -n = 2M + 2
- $q_V = 3M + \log_2(M) + 4$

<span id="page-26-1"></span><sup>14</sup> Note that the size of these multi-exponentiations does not matter.

<span id="page-26-2"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>15</sup> In particular, throughout this section we refer to the logarithmic-sized arithmetic circuit protocol described in Section 5.2 of their paper.

<span id="page-26-3"></span>As described in [7], the challenges are drawn from  $\mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}^*$ . For some rounds of the protocol  $x, y \in \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}^*$  would be considered colliding if  $x \equiv_{|\mathbb{G}|} \pm y$ . We capture this by thinking of coins drawn from  $\{+, -\} \times \mathbb{Z}_p$ . Then (+, x) represents  $x + 1 \in \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}^*$  and (-, x) represents  $-x - 1 \mod |\mathbb{G}| = |\mathbb{G}| - x - 1 \in \mathbb{Z}_{|\mathbb{G}|}^*$ . Hence the collision condition corresponds to equality in the  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  component.

{27}------------------------------------------------

$$-q_{X}=0$$

Having proven our discrete log bound in a generic group model allowing multi-exponentiations is helpful here; it makes our bound not depend on the size of V's multi-exponentiations.

Corollary 1. Let PS be the Bulletproofs proof system for arithmetic circuits define in Section 5.2 of [7] using a group of size  $|\mathbb{G}|$ . Let M denote the number of multiplication gates in the circuit and  $L \leq 2M$  the number of linear constraints. Let G be a statement generator performing at most  $q_G$  multi-exponentiations and  $P^*$  be a cheating prover that performs at most  $q_{P^*}$  multi-exponentiations each time it is run. Define  $\mathcal{B}$  as shown in Fig. 12. Assume  $|\mathbb{G}| \geq 2$ ,  $L \geq 1$ , and  $M \geq 16$ . Then in the generic group model,

<span id="page-27-7"></span>
$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sound}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathsf{P}^*) < \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{B}) + \frac{13q_G + 258q_{\mathsf{P}^*} \cdot LM^3 \log_2(M) + 644 \cdot LM^4}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}}.$$

The runtime of  $\mathcal{B}$  is roughly that of  $\mathsf{E}^\dagger[\mathsf{T},\mathsf{X}_B]$  when given oracle access to  $\mathsf{P}^*$  and  $\mathsf{V}$  interacting, where  $\mathsf{X}_B$  is the Bulletproofs extractor.

We expect  $q_{\mathbb{P}^*}$  to be the largest of the parameters, so the  $O\left(q_{\mathbb{P}^*} \cdot LM^3 \log_2(M)/\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}\right)$  term dominates. This highlights the dependence of soundness on the group size  $|\mathbb{G}|$  and M. For typical instantiations, where  $|\mathbb{G}| \approx 2^{256}$ , the guaranteed security level is fairly low for modest-sized circuits (say with  $M = 2^{20}$ ). It is a good question whether this bound can be made tighter, particularly with respect to its dependence on M.

*Proof.* The bound was obtained by plugging our parameters (and  $\mu = 3 + \log_2(M)$ ) into Theorem 5, then simplifying the expression using that  $|\mathbb{G}| \ge 2$ ,  $L \ge 1$ , and  $M \ge 16$ . The (straightforward) details of this are provided in Appendix B.

## Acknowledgements

We thank Ahsrujit Ghoshal for extensive discussions and his involvement in the earlier stages of this work. We also thank Benedikt Bünz for some clarification regarding [7].

This work was partially supported by NSF grants CNS-1930117 (CAREER), CNS-1926324, CNS-2026774, a Sloan Research Fellowship, and a JP Morgan Faculty Award.

## References

- <span id="page-27-0"></span>1. B. Barak and Y. Lindell. Strict polynomial-time in simulation and extraction. In 34th ACM STOC, pages 484–493. ACM Press, May 2002.
- <span id="page-27-6"></span>2. M. Bellare and G. Neven. Multi-signatures in the plain public-key model and a general forking lemma. In A. Juels, R. N. Wright, and S. De Capitani di Vimercati, editors, *ACM CCS 2006*, pages 390–399. ACM Press, Oct. / Nov. 2006.
- <span id="page-27-3"></span>3. M. Bellare and P. Rogaway. Random oracles are practical: A paradigm for designing efficient protocols. In D. E. Denning, R. Pyle, R. Ganesan, R. S. Sandhu, and V. Ashby, editors, *ACM CCS 93*, pages 62–73. ACM Press, Nov. 1993.
- <span id="page-27-4"></span>4. M. Bellare and P. Rogaway. The security of triple encryption and a framework for code-based game-playing proofs. In S. Vaudenay, editor, *EUROCRYPT 2006*, volume 4004 of *LNCS*, pages 409–426. Springer, Heidelberg, May / June 2006.
- <span id="page-27-5"></span>5. D. J. Bernstein. How to stretch random functions: The security of protected counter sums. *Journal of Cryptology*, 12(3):185–192, June 1999.
- <span id="page-27-1"></span>6. J. Bootle, A. Cerulli, P. Chaidos, J. Groth, and C. Petit. Efficient zero-knowledge arguments for arithmetic circuits in the discrete log setting. In M. Fischlin and J.-S. Coron, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2016*, *Part II*, volume 9666 of *LNCS*, pages 327–357. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2016.
- <span id="page-27-2"></span>7. B. Bünz, J. Bootle, D. Boneh, A. Poelstra, P. Wuille, and G. Maxwell. Bulletproofs: Short proofs for confidential transactions and more. In 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 315–334. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2018.

{28}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-28-2"></span>8. B. B¨unz, B. Fisch, and A. Szepieniec. Transparent SNARKs from DARK compilers. In A. Canteaut and Y. Ishai, editors, EUROCRYPT 2020, Part I, volume 12105 of LNCS, pages 677–706. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2020.
- <span id="page-28-19"></span>9. D. Chang and M. Nandi. A short proof of the PRP/PRF switching lemma. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2008/078, 2008. <http://eprint.iacr.org/2008/078>.
- <span id="page-28-9"></span>10. S. Chen and J. P. Steinberger. Tight security bounds for key-alternating ciphers. In P. Q. Nguyen and E. Oswald, editors, EUROCRYPT 2014, volume 8441 of LNCS, pages 327–350. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2014.
- <span id="page-28-20"></span>11. S. Even and Y. Mansour. A construction of a cipher from a single pseudorandom permutation. Journal of Cryptology, 10(3):151–162, June 1997.
- <span id="page-28-15"></span>12. O. Goldreich. On expected probabilistic polynomial-time adversaries: A suggestion for restricted definitions and their benefits. Journal of Cryptology, 23(1):1–36, Jan. 2010.
- <span id="page-28-12"></span>13. J. Groth and Y. Ishai. Sub-linear zero-knowledge argument for correctness of a shuffle. In N. P. Smart, editor, EUROCRYPT 2008, volume 4965 of LNCS, pages 379–396. Springer, Heidelberg, Apr. 2008.
- <span id="page-28-10"></span>14. V. T. Hoang and S. Tessaro. Key-alternating ciphers and key-length extension: Exact bounds and multi-user security. In M. Robshaw and J. Katz, editors, CRYPTO 2016, Part I, volume 9814 of LNCS, pages 3–32. Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2016.
- <span id="page-28-0"></span>15. J. Katz and Y. Lindell. Handling expected polynomial-time strategies in simulation-based security proofs. In J. Kilian, editor, TCC 2005, volume 3378 of LNCS, pages 128–149. Springer, Heidelberg, Feb. 2005.
- <span id="page-28-16"></span>16. J. Katz and Y. Lindell. Handling expected polynomial-time strategies in simulation-based security proofs. Journal of Cryptology, 21(3):303–349, July 2008.
- <span id="page-28-13"></span>17. Y. Lindell. Parallel coin-tossing and constant-round secure two-party computation. Journal of Cryptology, 16(3):143–184, June 2003.
- <span id="page-28-5"></span>18. U. M. Maurer. Indistinguishability of random systems. In L. R. Knudsen, editor, EUROCRYPT 2002, volume 2332 of LNCS, pages 110–132. Springer, Heidelberg, Apr. / May 2002.
- <span id="page-28-4"></span>19. U. M. Maurer. Abstract models of computation in cryptography (invited paper). In N. P. Smart, editor, 10th IMA International Conference on Cryptography and Coding, volume 3796 of LNCS, pages 1–12. Springer, Heidelberg, Dec. 2005.
- <span id="page-28-7"></span>20. U. M. Maurer, K. Pietrzak, and R. Renner. Indistinguishability amplification. In A. Menezes, editor, CRYPTO 2007, volume 4622 of LNCS, pages 130–149. Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2007.
- <span id="page-28-17"></span>21. M. Nandi. A simple and unified method of proving indistinguishability. In R. Barua and T. Lange, editors, INDOCRYPT 2006, volume 4329 of LNCS, pages 317–334. Springer, Heidelberg, Dec. 2006.
- <span id="page-28-18"></span>22. J. Patarin. About Feistel schemes with six (or more) rounds. In S. Vaudenay, editor, FSE'98, volume 1372 of LNCS, pages 103–121. Springer, Heidelberg, Mar. 1998.
- <span id="page-28-8"></span>23. J. Patarin. The "coefficients H" technique (invited talk). In R. M. Avanzi, L. Keliher, and F. Sica, editors, SAC 2008, volume 5381 of LNCS, pages 328–345. Springer, Heidelberg, Aug. 2009.
- <span id="page-28-21"></span>24. D. Pointcheval and J. Stern. Security proofs for signature schemes. In U. M. Maurer, editor, EUROCRYPT'96, volume 1070 of LNCS, pages 387–398. Springer, Heidelberg, May 1996.
- <span id="page-28-11"></span>25. D. Pointcheval and J. Stern. Security arguments for digital signatures and blind signatures. Journal of Cryptology, 13(3):361–396, June 2000.
- <span id="page-28-3"></span>26. V. Shoup. Lower bounds for discrete logarithms and related problems. In W. Fumy, editor, EUROCRYPT'97, volume 1233 of LNCS, pages 256–266. Springer, Heidelberg, May 1997.
- <span id="page-28-6"></span>27. V. Shoup. Sequences of games: a tool for taming complexity in security proofs. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2004/332, 2004. <http://eprint.iacr.org/2004/332>.
- <span id="page-28-1"></span>28. R. S. Wahby, I. Tzialla, a. shelat, J. Thaler, and M. Walfish. Doubly-efficient zkSNARKs without trusted setup. In 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 926–943. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2018.

## <span id="page-28-14"></span>A Fixed Runtime Tree-extended Emulator

In Section [6,](#page-18-3) we saw an efficient (in expected runtime) tree-extended emulator T. It may we worth comparing this to how well we can do with a tree extractor when we have a hard upper bound on its runtime. In particular we present and analyze a tree extracting emulator which is the natural generalization of the standard rewinding argument for special-sound Σ-protocols to a tree-extended emulator. The standard rewinding argument appeared originally as the Forking Lemma of Pointcheval and Stern [\[24\]](#page-28-21). Some alternate forking lemmas with different running-time/advantage trade-offs were given by Bellare and Neven [\[2\]](#page-27-6), we have not attempted to generalize them to this setting.

{29}------------------------------------------------

```
\frac{\text{Algorithm W}^{\text{Next}, \text{Rew}}(\pi, u)}{(tr, \mathsf{tree}) \leftarrow \$ \mathsf{W}_0^{\text{Next}, \text{Rew}}(\pi, u, ())}
                                                                                   \mathsf{W}_i^{\text{\tiny NEXT},\text{\tiny REW}}(\pi,u,tr)\ //0 \leqslant i < \mu
                                                                                   \overline{(m_{2i-1}, m_{2i}) \leftarrow \text{NEXT}()}
                                                                                   tr.\mathsf{add}(m_{2i-1}, m_{2i}) \ (tr_1, \mathsf{tree}_1) \leftarrow \mathsf{W}^{\mathrm{NEXT}, \mathrm{ReW}}_{i+1}(\pi, u, tr)
Return (tr, tree)
\mathsf{W}^{\mathrm{Next},\mathrm{Rew}}_{\mu}(\pi,u,tr)
                                                                                    \ell \leftarrow (\mathsf{tree}_1)
\overline{(m_{2\mu-1}, m_{2\mu}) \leftarrow NEXT()}
                                                                                   For j = 2, ..., n_{i+1} do
(tr_j, \mathsf{tree}_j) \leftarrow^{\$} \mathsf{W}_{i+1}^{\mathsf{NEXT}, \mathsf{REW}}(\pi, u, tr)
tr.add(m_{2\mu-1},m_{2\mu})
tree \leftarrow (m_{2\mu-1}, m_{2\mu}, ())
                                                                                    \mathsf{tree} \leftarrow (m_{2i-1}, m_{2i}, (\mathsf{tree}_1, \dots, \mathsf{tree}_{n_i}))
Call Rew()
                                                                                    Call Rew()
Return (tr, tree)
                                                                                    Return (tr_1, tree)
```

<span id="page-29-0"></span>Fig. 13. Our tree-extended emulator with a hard upper bound on running time.

The tree extractor W we consider is given in Fig. 13. Its behavior is analogous to the tree extractor T from Fig. 10 in Section 6 except it simply assume that every transcript it receives from its oracle is accepting. For a given P\* and  $\mathcal{A}$ , define  $\rho(P^*, \mathcal{A})$  to be the probability that  $V_{\pi}(u, tr) = \text{true}$  after executing  $\pi \leftarrow S$ ;  $(u, s, \cdot) \leftarrow A(\pi)$ ;  $(tr, \cdot) \leftarrow A(\pi)$ ;  $(tr, \cdot) \leftarrow A(\pi)$ . In words, this is the probability that P\* gets V to accept a proof of the statement generated by  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Lemma 10.** Let  $PS = (S, R, P, V, \mu)$  be a public-coin proof system where the coins of V are drawn uniformly from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . Let  $\mathbf{n} = (n_1, \ldots, n_\mu) \in \mathbb{N}_{>0}^\mu$  be given. Let  $M = \sum_{i=0}^\mu \prod_{j=1}^i n_j$  and  $N = \prod_{i=1}^\mu n_i$ . Let  $P^*$  be a cheating prover and A be an adversary. Define V as shown in Fig. 13. Then the following all hold.

```
1. \operatorname{Adv^{emu}_{PS,T}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) = 0

2. \operatorname{Adv^{pred}_{PS,W,\Pi^n_{val}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \leqslant \rho(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) - \rho(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A})^N

3. \operatorname{Adv^{pred}_{PS,W,\Pi^n_{nocol}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) \leqslant (M-1)(M-2)/2p

4. The number of queries that W makes to NEXT is less than M.
```

While the first, third, and fourth properties are as good as or better than what we showed of T, the second property is significantly worse. As N increases, the right side of the equation approaches  $\rho(P^*, A)$ , meaning W almost never succeeds at extracting a valid tree with accepting transcripts it produces.

*Proof.* The first property holds trivially because the tr output by W is obtained from the first  $\mu+1$  calls made to NEXT and REW is never called between them. The third property follows from the fourth by applying the birthday bound on M-1 random samples from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ .

The fourth property follows from a simple inductive argument. Each time a  $W_i$  is called it makes exactly one call to NEXT. so we need to count the number of times that each  $W_i$  is called and sum over i. We claim each  $W_i$  is called  $\prod_{j=1}^i n_j$  times. This holds trivially in the base case i=0 because the W is called once and  $\prod_{j=1}^0 n_j = 1$ . Inductively assuming that  $W_{i-1}$  is called  $\prod_{j=1}^i n_j$  times, we just observe that  $W_{i-1}$  call  $W_i$  exactly  $n_i$  times.

The second property will require a more complicated inductive argument. Let  $N_i = \prod_{j=i+1}^{\mu} n_j$ . Note that when  $\mathsf{W}_h$  is called, the variable i used by NEXT will have value h, so we will refer to these both by i the same. If we fix  $\pi$ , u, i,  $\sigma_{\mathsf{P}}^i$ ,  $\sigma_{\mathsf{V}}^i$ , and a transcript prefix  $tr^i = (m_{-1}, m_0, \ldots, m_{2i-3}, m_{2i-2})$  then we can think of an experiment in which we setup the variables of NEXT, REW appropriately and then run  $(tr,\mathsf{tree}) \leftarrow_{\$} \mathsf{W}_i^{\mathsf{NEXT},\mathsf{REW}}(\pi,u,tr^i)$  then check whether  $\mathsf{V}_{\pi}(u,tr) = \mathsf{true}$  and whether  $\mathsf{tree}$  is valid for  $tr^i$ .

Letting  $\operatorname{st}_i = (\pi, u, i, \sigma_{\mathsf{P}}^i, \sigma_{\mathsf{V}}^i, tr^i)$  be a "state" of the system we define  $\rho_{\operatorname{st}_i}$  to be the induced probability that  $\mathsf{V}_\pi(u, tr) = \mathsf{true}$  and  $\delta_{\operatorname{st}_i}$  to be the induced probability that tree is valid for  $tr^i$ . When we want to think of we let  $\mathbf{ST}_i$  be a random variable distributed over possible values of  $\operatorname{st}_i$ . We can think of  $\operatorname{st}_i$  inducing a distribution over  $\mathbf{ST}_{i+1}$  by the result of making a single NEXT query. We let  $\alpha_{\operatorname{st}_i}(\operatorname{st}_{i+1})$  denote the probability that  $\mathbf{ST}_{i+1} = \operatorname{st}_{i+1}$  according to this distribution. We let  $\alpha(\operatorname{st}_0)$  denote the probability that  $\mathbf{ST}_0 = \operatorname{st}_0$  when we run  $\pi \leftarrow S$ ;  $(u, s, \cdot) \leftarrow A(\pi)$ ;  $\sigma_{\mathsf{P}}^0 \leftarrow \bot$ ;  $\sigma_{\mathsf{V}}^1 \leftarrow \bot$ ;  $tr^0 \leftarrow ()$ .

{30}------------------------------------------------

We want to prove that for all  $0 \le i \le \mu$ , it holds that  $\delta_{\mathrm{st}_i} \ge \rho_{\mathrm{st}_i}^{N_i}$ . For the base case note that  $\delta_{\mathrm{st}_{\mu}} = \rho_{\mathrm{st}_{\mu}}^{N_{\mu}}$  because tree is valid for  $tr^{\mu}$  iff  $V_{\pi}(u, tr) = \mathsf{true}$ .

Now we fix  $0 \le i < \mu$  and inductively assume that,

$$\delta_{\mathrm{st}_{i+1}} \geqslant \rho_{\mathrm{st}_{i+1}}^{N_{i+1}}.$$

Recall the  $W_i$  will call NEXT once and then runs  $n_{i+1}$  instances of  $W_{i+1}$  obtaining  $(tr_j, tree_j)$  Note that tree will be valid for  $tr^i$  iff each tree<sub>j</sub> is valid for  $tr^{i+1}$ . Conditioned on the  $st_{i+1}$  produced by  $W_i$ 's query to NEXT, the tree<sub>j</sub> are independent and identically distributed. Additionally recall that tr returned by  $W_i$  will be  $tr_i$  so  $W_i$  outputs an accepting transcript iff the first instance of  $W_{i+1}$  outputs an accepting transcript. These observations gives us that,

$$\delta_{\operatorname{st}_i} = \sum_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}} \delta_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}}^{n_{i+1}} \cdot \alpha_{\operatorname{st}_i}(\operatorname{st}_{i+1}) \text{ and } \rho_{\operatorname{st}_i} = \sum_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}} \rho_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}} \cdot \alpha_{\operatorname{st}_i}(\operatorname{st}_{i+1}).$$

Now we can calculate that,

$$\delta_{\operatorname{st}_{i}} \geqslant \sum_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}} \left( \rho_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}}^{N_{i+1}} \right)^{n_{i+1}} \cdot \alpha_{\operatorname{st}_{i}}(\operatorname{st}_{i+1}) = \sum_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}} \rho_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}}^{N_{i}} \cdot \alpha_{\operatorname{st}_{i}}(\operatorname{st}_{i+1})$$
$$\geqslant \left( \sum_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}} \rho_{\operatorname{st}_{i+1}} \cdot \alpha_{\operatorname{st}_{i}}(\operatorname{st}_{i+1}) \right)^{N_{i}} = (\rho_{\operatorname{st}_{i}})^{N_{i}}.$$

The first inequality follows from our inductive assumption. The second inequality follows from Jensen's inequality. Now we move to apply this to derive our desired bounds. Letting variables be distributed as induced by  $\mathsf{H}^{\mathsf{pred}}$  we have,

$$\begin{aligned} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{pred}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{W},\Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{val}}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) &= \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{V}_{\pi}(u,tr) \wedge \neg \Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{val}}(\pi,u,\mathrm{aux})] \\ &= \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{V}_{\pi}(u,tr)] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{V}_{\pi}(u,tr) \wedge \Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{val}}(\pi,u,\mathrm{aux})] \\ &= \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{V}_{\pi}(u,tr)] - \mathsf{Pr}[\Pi^{\boldsymbol{n}}_{\mathsf{val}}(\pi,u,\mathrm{aux})] \end{aligned}$$

For the last equality we use that tr is one of the transcripts induced by the tree aux so if aux is valid, then tr must be an accepting transcript. Since  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{emu}}_{\mathsf{PS},\mathsf{T}}(\mathsf{P}^*,\mathcal{A}) = 0$  holds for any  $\mathcal{A}$ , we have that

$$\Pr[V_{\pi}(u, tr)] = \rho(P^*, \mathcal{A}).$$

Now W outputs a valid tree iff  $W_0$  does, so

$$\Pr[\Pi_{\mathsf{val}}^{\boldsymbol{n}}(\pi, u, \mathsf{aux})] = \sum_{\mathsf{st}_0} \delta_{\mathsf{st}_0} \cdot \alpha(\mathsf{st}_0) \leqslant \sum_{\mathsf{st}_0} \rho_{\mathsf{st}_0}^{N_0} \cdot \alpha(\mathsf{st}_0)$$

$$\leqslant \left(\sum_{\mathsf{st}_0} \rho_{\mathsf{st}_0} \cdot \alpha(\mathsf{st}_0)\right)^{N_0} = \rho(\mathsf{P}^*, \mathcal{A})^{N_0}.$$

This completes the proof.

## <span id="page-30-0"></span>B Calculations for Corollary 1

In this section we record the calculation underlying the bound of Corollary 1. There is nothing insightful in this calculation and generally no reason to read this section unless the reader has a need to check every last detail of the proof.

{31}------------------------------------------------

From Theorem 5 we have that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sound}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathsf{P}^*) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{B}) + 5\sqrt{\frac{6 \cdot Q_{\mathcal{C}}^2}{|\mathbb{G}|}} + \frac{2}{|\mathbb{G}|} + \frac{5\mu N}{\sqrt{2p}}$$

where  $Q_{\mathcal{C}} = q_G + (\mu N + 1)q_{P^*} + q_{\mathsf{X}} + Nq_{\mathsf{V}} + n + 1$ . Further recall that for the proof system in question we have

-  $\mu = 3 + \log_2(M)$ -  $p = (|\mathbb{G}| - 1)/2$ -  $N = 7(L+1)M^3$ - n = 2M + 2-  $q_V = 3M + \log_2(M) + 4$ -  $q_X = 0$ .

By assumption  $|\mathbb{G}| \ge 2$ ,  $L \ge 1$ , and  $M \ge 16$  hold. Some implication of these that we will use are  $\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|-1} \ge \sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|/2}$ ,  $N \le 14LM^2$ , and  $\log_2(M)/M \le 1/4$ .

We start by rewriting the final three terms of our bound to have denominators of  $\sqrt{|G|}$  and to expand the numerators a touch. The first term gives

$$5\sqrt{\frac{6\cdot Q_{\mathcal{C}}^2}{|\mathbb{G}|}} = \frac{5\sqrt{6}\cdot Q_{\mathcal{C}}}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}} = \frac{5\sqrt{6}\cdot (q_G + (\mu N + 1)q_{\mathsf{P*}} + q_{\mathsf{X}} + Nq_{\mathsf{V}} + n + 1)}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}}$$
$$= \frac{1}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}} \cdot \left[5\sqrt{6}(q_G) + 5\sqrt{6}(\mu N + 1)q_{\mathsf{P*}} + 5\sqrt{6}(Nq_{\mathsf{V}} + n + 1)\right].$$

The second term gives

$$\frac{2}{|\mathbb{G}|} = \frac{2/\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}} \leqslant \frac{2/\sqrt{2}}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}} = \frac{\sqrt{2}}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}}.$$

The third term gives

$$\frac{5\mu N}{\sqrt{2p}} = \frac{5\mu N}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}| - 1}} \leqslant \frac{5\mu N}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|/2}} = \frac{5\sqrt{2}\mu N}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}}.$$

We leave the coefficient of  $q_G$  alone in our final bound (other than noting  $5\sqrt{6} < 13$ ). Next we bound coefficient of  $q_{P*}$  as follows

$$\begin{split} 5\sqrt{6}(\mu N+1) &\leqslant 5\sqrt{6}(3+\log_2(M))14LM^3+1 \\ &= 5\sqrt{6}\left(2/\log_2(M)+1+1/14LM^3\log_2(M)\right)14LM^3\log_2(M) \\ &\leqslant 5\sqrt{6}\left(2/4+1+1/(14\cdot 1\cdot 16^3\cdot 4)\right)14LM^3\log_2(M) \\ &< 258LM^3\log_2(M). \end{split}$$

We combine everything else as a multiple of  $LM^4$ . First we have that

$$5\sqrt{6}(Nq_{\mathsf{V}}) \leqslant 5\sqrt{6}(14LM^3)(3M + \log_2(M) + 4)$$
$$= 70\sqrt{6}LM^4(3 + \log_2(M)/M + 4/M)$$
$$\leqslant 70\sqrt{6}LM^4(3 + 1/4 + 4/16) = 245\sqrt{6}LM^4.$$

Next we compute that

$$5\sqrt{6}(n+1) = 5\sqrt{6}(2M+2+1) = 5\sqrt{6}LM^4(2/LM^3 + 3/LM^4)$$
  
$$\leq 5\sqrt{6}LM^4(2/16^3 + 3/16^4) = (175\sqrt{6}/2^{16})LM^4$$

{32}------------------------------------------------

and

$$2/\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|} \le 2/\sqrt{2} = \sqrt{2} \le LM^4(\sqrt{2}/LM^4) \le (\sqrt{2}/2^{16})LM^4.$$

Finally we have

$$5\sqrt{2}\mu N \leqslant 5\sqrt{2}(3 + \log_2(M))(14LM^3) = 5\sqrt{2}(3/M + \log_2(M)/M)(14LM^4)$$
$$\leqslant 5\sqrt{2}(3/16 + 1/4)(14LM^4) = (245\sqrt{2}/8)LM^4.$$

Putting them together and using a calculator gives

$$245\sqrt{6}LM^4 + (175\sqrt{6}/2^{16})LM^4 + (\sqrt{2}/2^{16})LM^4 + (245\sqrt{2}/8)LM^4 < 644LM^4.$$

Combining all of our work indeed gives our claimed bound of

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{sound}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathsf{P}^*) < \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{wit}}_{\mathsf{PS},G}(\mathcal{B}) + \frac{13q_G + 258q_{\mathsf{P}^*} \cdot LM^3 \log_2(M) + 644 \cdot LM^4}{\sqrt{|\mathbb{G}|}}.$$