# COMMUTATOR SUBGROUP OF SYLOW 2-SUBGROUPS OF ALTERNATING GROUP AND MILLER-MORENO GROUPS AS BASES OF NEW KEY EXCHANGE PROTOCOL

#### A PREPRINT

#### Ruslan V. Skuratovskii

NTUU 'Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Institute' r.skuratovskii@kpi.ua ruslan@unicyb.kiev.ua

#### Aled Williams

School of Mathematics Cardiff University Cardiff, UK williamsae13@cardiff.ac.uk

February 25, 2020

#### ABSTRACT

The goal of this investigation is effective method of key exchange which based on non-commutative group *G*. The results of Ko et al. [6] is improved and generalized. The size of a minimal generating set for the commutator subgroup of Sylow 2-subgroups of alternating group is found. The structure of the commutator subgroup of Sylow 2-subgroups of the alternating group *A*<sup>2</sup> *<sup>k</sup>* is investigated and used in key exchange protocol which based on non-commutative group.

We consider non-commutative generalization of CDH problem [4, 3] on base of metacyclic group of Miller-Moreno type (minimal non-abelian group). We show that conjugacy problem in this group is intractable. Effectivity of computation is provided due to using groups of residues by modulo *n*. The algorithm of generating (designing) common key in non-commutative group with 2 mutually commuting subgroups is constructed by us.

Key words: the commutator subgroup of Sylow 2-subgroups, metacyclic group, conjugacy key exchange scheme, finite group, conjugacy problem.

2000 AMS subject classifications: 20B27, 20B22, 20F65, 20B07, 20E45.

## 1 Introduction

In this paper new conjugacy key exchange scheme is proposed. This protocol based on conjugacy problem in noncommutative group [2, 3, 4, 5, 10]. We slightly generalize Ko Lee's [6] protocol of key exchange. Public key cryptographic schemes based on the new systems are established. The conjugacy search problem in a group *G* is the problem of recovering an (*a ∈ G*) from given (*w ∈ G*) and *h* = *a <sup>−</sup>*1*wa*. This problem is in the core of several recently suggested public key exchange protocols. One of them is most notably due to Anshel, Anshel, and Goldfeld [2] and another due to Ko et al. [6]. As we know if CCP problem is tractable in *G* then problem of finding *w ab* by given *w*, *w <sup>a</sup>* = *a <sup>−</sup>*1*wa*, *w <sup>b</sup>* = *b <sup>−</sup>*1*wb* for an arbitrary fixed *<sup>w</sup> <sup>∈</sup> <sup>G</sup>* such that is not from center of *<sup>G</sup>*, *<sup>w</sup> ab* is the common key that Alice and Bob have to generate.

Recently, a novel approach to public key encryption based on the algorithmic difficulty of solving the word and conjugacy problems for finitely presented groups has been proposed in [1, 2]. The method is based on having a canonical minimal length form for words in a given finitely presented group, which can be computed rather rapidly, and in which there is no corresponding fast solution for the conjugacy problem. A key example is the braid group.

We denote by *w x* the conjugated element *u* = *x <sup>−</sup>*1*wx*. We show that efficient algorithm that can distinguish between two probability distributions of (*w x , w<sup>y</sup> , wxy*) and ( *w g , w<sup>h</sup> , wgh*) does not exist. Also, an efficient algorithm which recovers *w xh* from *w*, *w x* and *w <sup>y</sup>* does not exist. This group has representation

$$G = \left\langle a, b | a^{p^m} = e, b^{p^n} = e, b^{-1}ab = a^{1+p^{m-1}}, m \ge 2, n \ge 1 \right\rangle.$$

As a generators *a, b* can be chosen two arbitrary commuting elements [8, 10, 7].

Consider non-metacyclic group of Millera Moreno. This group has representation

$$G=\left\langle a,b\big||c|=p,|a|=p^m,|a|=p^n,m\geq 1,n\geq 1,b^{-1}ab=ac,b^{-1}cb=c\right\rangle.$$

To find a length of orbit of action by conjugation by *b* we consider the class of conjugacy of elements of form *a j c i* . This class has length *p* because of action *b <sup>−</sup>*1*a j c i b* = *a <sup>j</sup>*+1*c i , . . . ,* as well as *b <sup>−</sup>*1*a j c i*+*p−*1 *b* = *a j c <sup>i</sup>*+*<sup>p</sup>* = *a j c i* increase the power of *c* on 1. Thus, the first repetition of initial power *j* in *a j c <sup>i</sup>* occurs though *n* conjugations of this word by *b*, where 1 *≤ j ≤ p*. Therefore, the length of the orbit is *p*.

We need to have an effective algorithm for computation of conjugated elements, if we want to design a key exchange algorithm based on non-commutative DH problem [5]. Due to the relation in metacyclic group, which define the homomorphism *φ* : *⟨b⟩ →* Aut(*⟨a⟩*) to the automorphism group of the *B* = *⟨b⟩*, we obtain a formula for finding a conjugated element. Using this formula, we can efficiently calculate the conjugated to element by using the raising to the 1 + *p m−*1 -th power, where *m >* 1.

There is effective method of checking the equality of elements due to cyclic structure of group *A* = *⟨a⟩* and *B* = *⟨b⟩* in this group *G*.

We have an effective method of checking the equality of elements in the additive group  $Z_n$  because of reducing by finite modulo n.

## 2 Proof that conjugacy problem is $\mathcal{NP}$ -hard in G. Size of a conjugacy class

The orbit of the given base element  $w \in G$  must must be long enough if we want to have problem of DL or equally problem of conjugacy in non-commutative group G like  $\mathcal{NP}$ -hard problem.

Let elements of G act by conjugation on  $w \in G$ , where  $w \notin Z(G)$ .

**Theorem 1.** The length of conjugacy class of non-central element w is equal to p.

*Proof.* Recall the inner automorphism in G is determined by the formula  $b^{-1}ab = a^{1+p^{m-1}}$ . Let us recall the structure of minimal non-abelian Metacyclic group, namely  $G = B \ltimes_{\varphi} A$ , where  $A = \langle a \rangle$  and  $B = \langle b \rangle$  are finite cyclic groups. Therefore, the formula  $b^{-1}ab = a^{1+p^{m-1}}$  defines a homomorphism  $\varphi$  in the subgroup of inner automorphisms  $\operatorname{Aut}(\langle a \rangle)$ . It is well-known that each finite cyclic group is isomorphic to the correspondent additive cyclic group modulo n residue  $Z_n$ . In this group equality of elements can be checked effectively due to reducing the elements of the module group.

Consider the orbit of element w under action by conjugation. The length of such orbit can be found from equality  $w^{(1+p^{m-1})^s}=w$  as minimal power s for which this equality will be true. We apply Newton binomial formula to the expression  $(1+p^{m-1})\equiv 1 \pmod{p^m}$  and taking into account the relation  $a^{p^m}=e$ . We obtain

$$1 + C_s^1 p^{m-1} + 1 + C_s^2 p^{2(m-1)} + \dots + p^{s(m-1)} \equiv 1 \, (\text{mod } p^m)$$

only if  $s \equiv p^l \pmod{p^m}$  with l < m because  $1 + C_s^1 p^{m-1} = 1 + sp^{m-1} \not\equiv 1 \pmod{p^s}$  if s < p. It means that the minimal s when this congruence start to holds is equal to p. The prime number p can be chosen as big as we need [17] which completes the proof.

Let us evaluate the size of subsets  $S_1, S_2$  with mutually commutative elements. Each of this subset of generated by them subgroups  $H_1, H_2$  can be chosen as the subgroups of center of group G. It is well-known that the semidirect product is closely related to wreath product. The center of the wreath product with non-faithful action were recently studied [11].

**Proposition 1.** As it was proved by the author a center of the restricted wreath product with n non-trivial coordinates  $(A, X) \wr B$  is direct product of normal closure of center of diagonal of  $Z(B^n)$ , i.e.  $(E \times Z(\Delta(B^n)))$ , trivial an element, and intersection of  $(K) \times E$  with (A). In other words,

$$Z((A,X)\wr B=\langle (1;\underbrace{h,h,\ldots,h}_n),e(Z(A)\cap Z(K,X))\wr E\rangle\simeq \langle Z(A)\cap K)\times Z(\Delta(B^n)\rangle$$

where  $h \in Z(B), |X| = n$ .

Taking into consideration that a semidirect product is the partial case of wreath product the diagonal of *B<sup>n</sup>* degenerates in *B*. Thus, we obtain such formula for the center of semidirect product:

$$Z\left((A,X)\rtimes B\right)=\langle Z(1;h),e,(Z(A)\cap K,X)\wr E\rangle\simeq \langle Z(A)\cap K)\times Z(\Delta(B^n)\rangle.$$

This structure lead to constructive method of finding elements of the center. As it was noted above the elements *x* and *y* are parts of elements of secret key. Therefore as greater a size of center of a considered group as greater a size of a key space of this protocol.

Also commutator subgroup of Sylow 2-subgroup of alternating groups can be used as a support of CSP problem [12, 13, 15].

Definition 2.1. *For an arbitrary k ∈* N *we call a k-*coordinate *subgroup U < G a subgroup, which is determined by k-coordinate sets* [*U*]*<sup>l</sup> , l ∈* N*, if this subgroup consists of all Kaloujnine's tableaux a ∈ I for which* [*a*]*<sup>l</sup> ∈* [*U*]*<sup>l</sup> .*

We denote by *Gk*(*l*) a level subgroup of *Gk*, which consists of the tuples of v.p. from *X<sup>l</sup>* , *l < k −* 1 of any *α ∈ Gk*.

As a sets *S*<sup>1</sup> and *S*<sup>2</sup> consisting of mutually commutative elements we can use the set of elements of *l*-*coordinate* subgroup of *Gk*, where *l < k*, or the elements of *Gk*(*l*) that is isomorphic to this subgroup. As it was proved by the author [12] the order of *Syl*2*A*<sup>2</sup> *<sup>k</sup>* is 2 2 *<sup>k</sup>−k−*<sup>2</sup> . therefore the growth of mutually commutative sets of elements *S*<sup>1</sup> and *S*<sup>2</sup> is exponential function has.

According to [9] index of center of metacyclic group has index *|G* : *Z* (*G*)*|* = *p* 2 , therefore the order of *Z*(*G*) = *p k−*2 . Thus, we have *p* <sup>2</sup> *<sup>−</sup>* <sup>1</sup> possibilities to choose an element *<sup>w</sup>* as an element of the open key, which is in the protocol of key exchange.

### 3 Key exchange protocol

Let *S*1*, S*<sup>2</sup> be subsets from *G* consisting of mutually commutative elements. We make a generalisation of CDH by taking into consideration the subgroups *H*<sup>1</sup> = *⟨S*1*⟩* and *H*<sup>2</sup> = *⟨S*2*⟩* instead of using *S*1*, S*2. We can do this because the groups *H*<sup>1</sup> and *H*<sup>2</sup> have generating sets *S*<sup>1</sup> and *S*<sup>2</sup> which commute. Because of these mutually commutative generating sets, we know that the subgroups are additionally mutually commutative.

#### 4 Consideration of base steps of the protocol

*Input: Elements w, w <sup>x</sup> and w y* .

Alice selects a private *x* as the random element *x* from the subgroup *H*<sup>1</sup> and computes *w <sup>x</sup>* = *x <sup>−</sup>*<sup>1</sup>*wx*. The she sends it to Bob. Bob selects a private *y* as the random element *y* from the subgroup *H*<sup>2</sup> and computes *w x* . Then he sends it to Alice. Bob computes (*w x* ) *<sup>y</sup>* = *w xy* and Alice computes (*w y* ) *<sup>x</sup>* = *w yx*. Taking into consideration that *H*<sup>1</sup> and *H*<sup>2</sup> are mutually commutative groups we obtain that *xy* = *yx*. Therefore, we have that *w xy* = *w yx* .

*Output: w xy that is the common key of Alice and Bob*.

Thus, the common key [3, 6, 2, 1] *w xy* was successfully generated.

Resistance to a cryptanalysis. But if an analytic use for a cryptanalysis will use for cryptoanalysys solving of conjugacy search problem the method of reduction to solving of decomposition problem [16], then it lead us to solving of discrete logarithm problem in the multiplicative cyclic group *Zp*. This problem is NP-hard for big *p*.

# 5 Conclusion

We can choose mutually commutative *H*1*, H*<sup>2</sup> as subgroups of *Z*(*G*). As we said above, *x, y* are chosen from *H*1*, H*<sup>2</sup> as components of key. According to [8] *Z*(*G*) = *p n*+*m−*2 so size of key-space is *O*(*p n*+*m−*2 ). It should be noted that the size of key-space can be chosen as arbitrary big number by choosing the parameters *p, n, m*. As an element for exponenting we can choose an arbitrary element *w ∈ A* but *w ̸*= *e*, because the size of orbit in result of action of inner automorphism *φ* is always not less than *p*.

# References

- [1] Iris Anshel, Michael Anshel, Benji Fisher, and Dorian Goldfeld. New key agreement protocols in braid group cryptography. In *Cryptographers' Track at the RSA Conference*, pages 13–27. Springer, 2001.
- [2] Iris Anshel, Michael Anshel, and Dorian Goldfeld. An algebraic method for public-key cryptography. *Mathematical Research Letters*, 6(3):287–291, 1999.
- [3] Jens-Matthias Bohli, Benjamin Glas, and Rainer Steinwandt. Towards provably secure group key agreement building on group theory. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2006/079, 2006. https://eprint.iacr.org/ 2006/079.
- [4] Lize Gu, Licheng Wang, Kaoru Ota, Mianxiong Dong, Zhenfu Cao, and Yixian Yang. New public key cryptosystems based on non-abelian factorization problems. *Security and Communication Networks*, 6(7):912–922, 2013.
- [5] Lize Gu and Shihui Zheng. Conjugacy systems based on nonabelian factorization problems and their applications in cryptography. *Journal of Applied Mathematics*, 2014, 2014.
- [6] Ki Hyoung Ko, Sang Jin Lee, Jung Hee Cheon, Jae Woo Han, Ju-sung Kang, and Choonsik Park. New publickey cryptosystem using braid groups. In Mihir Bellare, editor, *Advances in Cryptology — CRYPTO 2000*, pages 166–183, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2000. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
- [7] Ayoub Otmani, Jean-Pierre Tillich, and Leonard Dallot. Cryptanalysis of two mceliece cryptosystems based on ´ quasi-cyclic codes. *Mathematics in Computer Science*, 3(2):129–140, 2010.

- [8] I Raievska, M Raievska, and Ya Sysak. Finite local nearrings with split metacyclic additive group. *Algebra and discrete mathematics*, 22(22, 1):129–152, 2016.
- [9] Laszl ´ o R´ edei. Das "schiefe produkt" in der gruppentheorie. ´ *Commentarii Mathematici Helvetici*, 20(1):225–264, 1947.
- [10] Ruslan Viacheslavovich Skuratovskii. Employment of minimal generating sets and structure of sylow 2 subgroups alternating groups in block ciphers. In *Advances in Computer Communication and Computational Sciences*, pages 351–364. Springer, 2019.
- [11] Ruslan Viacheslavovich Skuratovskii and Aled Williams. Minimal generating set and a structure of the wreath product of groups, and the fundamental group of the orbit morse function. *Bulletin of Donetsk National University. Series A: Natural Sciences*, 0(1-2):76–96, 2019.
- [12] *Skuratovskii R.*, Commutators subgroups of sylow subgroups of alternating and symmetric groups their minimal generating sets. The XII International Algebraic Conference in Ukraine (2019) Vinnytsia, p. 75.
- [13] *Skuratovskii R.V.*, Generating set of wreath product non faithful action. International Journal of Analysis and Applications Volume 18, No. *1* (2020), pp. 104–116.
- [14] *R. V. Skuratovskii,* Structure of commutant and centralizer, minimal generating sets of. Sylow 2-subgroups *Syl*2*A<sup>n</sup>* of alternating and symmetric groups. International conference in Ukraine, ATA12. (2017). https://www.imath.kiev.ua/ topology/.../skuratovskiy.pdf
- [15] *Skuratovskii R. V.,* Structure and minimal generating sets of Sylow 2-subgroups of alternating groups. Source: https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.05784v2
- [16] V Shpilrain, A. Ushakov The Conjugacy Search Problem in Public Key Cryptography: Unnecessary and Insufficient. Applicable Algebra in Engineering, Communication and Computing. (2006), volume 17, p. 285 - 289.
- [17] Ivan Matveevich Vinogradov. *Elements of number theory*. Courier Dover Publications, 2016.