

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Mixed-Technique Multi-Party Computations Composed of Two-Party Computations

Erik-Oliver Blass<sup>1</sup> and Florian Kerschbaum<sup>2</sup>

<sup>1</sup> Airbus, Munich, Germany erik-oliver.blass@airbus.com <sup>2</sup> University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada florian.kerschbaum@uwaterloo.ca

Abstract. Protocols for secure multi-party computation are commonly composed of different sub-protocols, combining techniques such as homomorphic encryption, secret or Boolean sharing, and garbled circuits. In this paper, we design a new class of multi-party computation protocols which themselves are composed out of two-party protocols. We integrate both types of compositions, compositions of fully homomorphic encryption and garbled circuits with compositions of multi-party protocols from two-party protocols. As a result, we can construct communication-efficient protocols for special problems. Furthermore, we show how to efficiently ensure the security of composed protocols against malicious adversaries by proving in zero-knowledge that conversions between individual techniques are correct. To demonstrate the usefulness of this approach, we give an example scheme for private set analytics, i.e., private set disjointness. This scheme enjoys lower communication complexity than a solution based on generic multi-party computation and lower computation cost than fully homomorphic encryption. So, our design is more suitable for deployments in wide-area networks, such as the Internet, with many participants or problems with circuits of moderate or high multiplicative depth.

## 1 Introduction

Whereas secure two-party computations are deployed in practice [\[68\]](#page-18-0), designing and deploying practical secure multi-party computation is still an open challenge. Communication latency is a typical bottleneck for many multi-round protocols, and in response constant-round multi-party computations [\[33,](#page-17-0) [43,](#page-17-1) [44\]](#page-17-2) based on [Beaver et al.'](#page-16-0)s technique [\[5\]](#page-16-0) have been designed. Their deployment is lacking due to challenges from implementation complexity, communication bandwidth, and memory requirements. To address these challenges, protocols using fully-homomorphic encryption (FHE) [\[11,](#page-16-1) [23\]](#page-16-2) and dual execution can be used. Yet, designing efficient homomorphic encryption schemes (for arithmetic circuits) is also an open challenge. Circuits with high multiplicative depth, the reason for a high number of rounds in many multi-party computation protocols, imply high computation costs.

In this paper, we present a design alternative. We specifically consider multi-party computations that can at least partially be decomposed into a sequence of two-party computations (2PCs). We first evaluate 2PCs using garbled circuits and then combine 

{1}------------------------------------------------

the output and continue computation using FHE evaluation. The idea of our mixedtechnique protocols is to exploit advantages of each technique, for example, binary vs. arithmetic circuits, typical in application domains such as machine learning [\[13,](#page-16-3) [21,](#page-16-4) [29,](#page-16-5) [49\]](#page-17-3). For fully malicious security, we show how to convert between outputs of garbled circuits and FHE ciphertexts using efficient zero-knowledge proofs. Compared to conversions in the semi-honest model [\[39\]](#page-17-4), this requires a different construction, which has, however, little additional overhead. Other related work [\[38\]](#page-17-5) sketches malicious conversions, but only for two parties, whereas we consider the multi-party setting. The first phase of 2PC reduces multiplicative depth for the following FHE evaluation phase, but remains small enough to have low communication complexity. As we show by construction, such a combined protocol can keep a *constant number of rounds* and can still be secure in the malicious model. Due to their lower communication requirements, combined protocols have the potential for deployment in wide area networks.

The composition of 2PC protocols into a multi-party protocol can take many forms. In order to demonstrate the advantages of our constructions, we design and investigate a combined protocol for private set disjointness, i.e., a protocol that computes whether the intersection of sets is empty, but does not reveal anything else, including the intersection itself. This protocol follows a star topology of communication where each party P<sup>i</sup> engages in 2PC with a central party P1. Our composition of 2PC protocols into a multi-party protocol is particularly efficient if it follows a star topology. We stress that even in the star topology, we provide malicious security against an adversary controlling the central node (among others) which is the challenge of any such composition. Furthermore, besides the set disjointness protocol there are (infinitely) many other protocols that can be implemented in a star topology. The entire class of *multi-party private set analytics* protocols [\[4,](#page-16-6) [12,](#page-16-7) [20,](#page-16-8) [45,](#page-17-6) [51\]](#page-17-7) is an example. However, our protocols are also not limited to a star topology, and we also mention other use cases, such as auctions [\[9\]](#page-16-9), that do not follow a star topology.

Our example use case is driven by the use case of sharing Indicators of Compromise (IoCs), where multiple parties try to determine whether they have been subject to a common attack. We design a maliciously-secure protocol which determines whether the multi-party set intersection is empty. A non-empty intersection would be grounds for further investigation. With each party's set holding n elements, our set disjointness protocol runs in 9 rounds, needs O(n) broadcasts, and has a message complexity linear in the number of comparisons required to compare all parties' inputs. We have implemented a semi-honest version of this protocol to show that our design offers performance improvements over other multi-party computation protocols in the semi-honest model. Using our zero-knowledge proofs, our protocol can also be made secure in the malicious model.

In summary, the main contributions of this paper are:

- 1. A construction for mixed-technique MPC composed from 2PC which features a constant number of rounds, low communication complexity, and malicious security.
- 2. Efficient zero-knowledge proofs, included in this construction, converting between garbled circuit outputs and homomorphic encryption with malicious security.

{2}------------------------------------------------

3. A demonstration of our construction's usefulness by realizing a multi-party protocol for set disjointness.

We also present (Appendix D) a technique replacing standard verification of hash-based commitments during 2PC by a white-box use of garbled circuits. We use this technique to reduce communication overhead in our conversion, but the idea is general, applicable to other scenarios, and of independent interest.

## 2 Conversion between 2PC and Homomorphic Encryption

To simplify exposition, we start with a motivation and an overview of our conversion for the special case of d=2 parties. For space reasons, we defer the extension to any  $d\geq 2$  parties to Appendix B. Our goal is malicious security of the conversions which we describe in Section 2.1.

Parties  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  want to jointly compute function  $F(I_1,I_2)=O$  on their respective input bit strings  $I_1$  and  $I_2$  to receive output string  $O=(o_1,\ldots,o_N)$ . For security reasons,  $P_1$  should only learn some subset of bit string O, but nothing else (for example not  $P_2$ 's input). Similarly,  $P_2$  should only learn the other bits of O, but nothing else. To enable secure computation of F, parties can revert to two standard approaches. Parties could express F as a Boolean circuit and evaluate this circuit using maliciously-secure two-party garbled circuit computation (2PC). Alternatively, parties express F as an arithmetic circuit, compute a shared private key of a fully homomorphic encryption (FHE), and encrypt their inputs with the corresponding public-key. Parties then evaluate the circuit homomorphically and jointly decrypt the final result such that each party only learns their output bits.

Yet, each of the two approaches comes with performance issues. On the one hand, FHE evaluation of arithmetic circuits with large multiplicative depth is computationally expensive. On the other hand, evaluating Boolean circuits with 2PC for large circuits is expensive regarding the amount of communication.

So, a third alternative and the focus of this paper is for parties to evaluate F using a mix of both techniques. Parties evaluate F as a circuit decomposed into a sequence of sub-circuits  $F(I_1,I_2)=(C_1\circ\cdots\circ C_m)(I_1,I_2)$ . Some sub-circuits  $C_i$  are Boolean, while others are arithmetic. Parties agree that Boolean sub-circuits of function F will be evaluated using garbled circuit 2PC, and arithmetic sub-circuits of F will be evaluated using FHE. Output of 2PC will serve as input to FHE and vice versa. The goal of such a mixed-techniques approach is to optimize overall performance by reducing multiplicative depth of FHE circuits and communication complexity of 2PC circuits. For clarity, we now denote Boolean (sub-)circuits  $C_i$  by  $C_i^{\text{Bool}}$  and arithmetic (sub-)circuits  $C_i$  by  $C_i^{\text{Crith}}$ . Assume that  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  have initially computed a public and private key pair for a homomorphic encryption Enc, where the private key is shared among both parties.

#### <span id="page-2-0"></span>2.1 Malicious Security

Achieving malicious security for conversion turns out to be a challenge. For example, let  $P_1$  be the garbler and  $P_2$  the evaluator during 2PC evaluation of a simple subcircuit  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$  with two input and two output bits  $(x,y) = C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}(a,b)$ . Evaluator  $P_2$  receives both output bits x,y and must convert them into correct homomorphic encryptions  $\mathsf{Enc}(x)$  and  $\mathsf{Enc}(y)$ . This is hard to achieve against malicious adversaries: as  $P_2$ 

{3}------------------------------------------------

could be malicious,  $P_2$  must prove to  $P_1$  that ciphertexts  $\operatorname{Enc}(x)$  and  $\operatorname{Enc}(y)$  are correctly encrypting outputs x and y received during 2PC. Worse,  $P_2$  should not even learn x and y, as they are an intermediate result of C's evaluation or maybe output bits for  $P_1$ . Party  $P_2$  should instead receive related information during 2PC which then allows  $P_2$  to indirectly generate homomorphic encryptions  $\operatorname{Enc}(x)$  and  $\operatorname{Enc}(y)$ . Alternatively, one might suggest implementing homomorphic encryption  $\operatorname{Enc}(x)$  inside a 2PC circuit, but this is too costly.

Similarly, we need to convert FHE ciphertexts output by circuits  $C_i^{\text{Arith}}$  into input for 2PC garbled circuits with malicious security. Moreover, if  $P_1$  and  $P_2$ 's 2PC computation was part of a larger MPC computation involving  $d \geq 2$  parties, we also need to consider the case where both are malicious, so they must prove to all parties that their encryptions are correct. Finally, the private key is shared among all d parties which impedes easy zero-knowledge (ZK) proofs.

**Important Remarks** This paper targets secure output conversion between 2PC and FHE. To actually evaluate Boolean sub-circuit  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$ , we assume existence of any maliciously secure 2PC scheme as a building block. Several different approaches exist which achieve maliciously secure 2PC in practice, see [41, 42, 53, 65] for an overview.

For secure evaluation of arithmetic sub-circuits  $C_i^{\text{Arith}}$ , any FHE scheme could serve as building block. FHE is maliciously secure by default, as long as parties evaluate the same circuit on the same ciphertexts. To enforce this, our conversion requires the FHE scheme to also support distributed key generation and certain ZK proofs detailed below. There exist several efficient lattice-based FHE schemes with support for both [7, 8, 10, 17, 18, 50, 62], and there are even efficient schemes which allow proving general, arbitrary ZK statements in addition to distributed key generation [2]. While describing details of our techniques, we use any of these as an underlying building block, e.g., the one by Asharov et al. [2].

#### 2.2 Solution Overview

**Roadmap** There are two different cases for conversion we will have to consider in a mixed-technique setting. First, parties convert output bits  $(o_{i,1},\ldots,o_{i,n})=C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}(I_{i,1},I_{i,2})$  from 2PC evaluation of circuit  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$  on input strings  $I_{i,1}$  and  $I_{i,2}$  into n homomorphic encryptions  $\mathsf{Enc}(o_{i,j})$ . Knowing encryptions  $\mathsf{Enc}(o_{i,j})$ , each party then evaluates the subsequent arithmetic circuit  $C_{i+1}^{\mathsf{Arith}}$ .

Second, parties convert a sequence of ciphertexts  $\operatorname{Enc}(b_i)$ , homomorphic encryptions of bits  $b_i$  (or integers, see Appendix A) into input for a 2PC Boolean circuit evaluation. That is, both parties have evaluated arithmetic sub-circuit  $C_i^{\operatorname{Arith}}$  and computed ciphertexts  $\operatorname{Enc}(b_i)$ , respectively. These ciphertexts will now be converted into input for 2PC evaluation of sub-circuit  $C_{i+1}^{\operatorname{Bool}}$ .

Actual evaluation of circuits is then secure by definition, as we rely on standard maliciously-secure 2PC. For arithmetic sub-circuits, both parties evaluate FHE ciphertexts on their own. An honest party will automatically compute correct output ciphertexts as long as input ciphertexts are correct.

Parties will also need to securely convert both parties' plain input into either FHE encryptions or 2PC inputs. Yet, that part is trivial: if the first sub-circuit is an arithmetic circuit, a party sends homomorphic encryptions of each input bit. If the first circuit is

{4}------------------------------------------------

Boolean, we rely on whatever technique the underlying maliciously secure 2PC offers. Finally, at the end of the last circuit evaluation, FHE ciphertexts or 2PC output has to be decrypted. Again, this is fairly simple, and we skip details for now. We only consider the first two cases of converting 2PC output to FHE input and FHE output to 2PC input.

Intuition Our conversions focus on Boolean sub-circuits  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$ . We design mechanisms which either convert 2PC output of  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$  to FHE ciphertexts serving as input to  $C_{i+1}^{\mathsf{Arith}}$  or convert FHE ciphertexts coming from  $C_{i-1}^{\mathsf{Arith}}$  into input to  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$ . Each of our two conversions first modifies  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$  and evaluates the modified circuit using three new cryptographic building blocks which we call ZK Protocol (1), ZK Protocol (2), and ZK Protocol (3). Each ZK Protocol takes as input a Boolean circuit and  $P_1$ 's and  $P_2$ 's input bits. ZK Protocol (1) and ZK Protocol (2) also take FHE ciphertexts as inputs. Each ZK Protocol again modifies the input circuit internally, 2PC-evaluates the modified version, and outputs 2PC output together with a ZK proof which proves certain relations between input and output in zero-knowledge for malicious security. As ZK Protocols are general, their interesting property is to be stackable, i.e., they can be combined with each other. Their internal circuit modification schemes will be merged, and only ZK proofs enclosing circuit modification have to be adapted, which is rather mechanical.

**ZK Protocols** Let  $\gamma$  be any Boolean circuit defined by its input and output bits as  $(\omega_1, \ldots, \omega_n) = \gamma((\iota_{1,1}, \ldots, \iota_{1,\ell_1}), (\iota_{2,1}, \ldots, \iota_{2,\ell_2}))$ . Parties  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  want to evaluate this circuit with 2PC. Bits  $\iota_{1,i}$  are inputs of  $P_1$ . Bits  $\iota_{2,i}$  are inputs of  $P_2$ , and  $\omega_i$  will be output bits known to  $P_2$ . From a high level, our three ZK Protocols implement:

- ZK Protocol (1).  $P_1$  sends homomorphic ciphertexts  $c_{1,i} \leftarrow \text{Enc}(\iota_{1,i})$ , encrypting their input bits  $\iota_{1,i}$  to  $P_2$ . Circuit  $\gamma$  is evaluated, and  $P_2$  receives output.  $P_1$  proves in ZK to  $P_2$  that  $c_{1,i}$  encrypts  $\iota_{1,i}$ , used during 2PC evaluation of  $\gamma$ .
- ZK Protocol (2):  $P_2$  sends homomorphic ciphertexts  $c_{2,i} \leftarrow \operatorname{Enc}(\iota_{2,i})$ , encrypting their input bits  $\iota_{2,i}$  to  $P_1$ . Circuit  $\gamma$  is evaluated, and  $P_1$  receives output.  $P_2$  proves in ZK to  $P_1$  that  $c_{2,i}$  encrypts  $\iota_{2,i}$ , used during 2PC evaluation of  $\gamma$ . This is ZK Protocol (1) with roles of  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  reversed.
- ZK Protocol (3): Circuit  $\gamma$  is evaluated, and  $P_2$  receives output  $\omega_i$ . Party  $P_2$  sends homomorphic ciphertext  $c_{\omega,i} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\omega_i)$  and proves in ZK to  $P_1$  that  $c_{\omega,i}$  really encrypts  $\omega_i$  received during 2PC evaluation to  $P_1$ .

Observe the different notation used in this paper for describing circuits. Boolean sub-circuits of function F are written as  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$ , while Boolean circuits we use inside our ZK Protocol building blocks are written with the Greek letter  $\gamma$ .

**Conversion** The main idea behind the actual conversion is to modify a circuit  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$  into  $\gamma$  which takes *shares* of  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$ 's original input as its input and outputs shares of  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$ 's original output. For example, to convert a 2PC output bit  $\omega_1$  of  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$  to an FHE ciphertext  $\mathsf{Enc}(\omega_1)$ , we do not evaluate  $C_i^{\mathsf{Bool}}$ , but  $\gamma$  which outputs share  $\omega_1 \oplus s$  to  $P_2$ , and s to  $P_1$ . Both parties encrypt their shares, exchange resulting ciphertexts, and homomorphically compute an XOR to get  $\mathsf{Enc}(\omega_1)$ . During this conversion, ZK Protocols prove the correctness of operations.

So, we design conversion schemes combining multiple 2PC circuit modification techniques with efficient ZK proofs. Together, modifications and proofs prove correctness of output conversion between outputs of 2PC and FHE circuit evaluation.

{5}------------------------------------------------

**Semi-Honest Security** Our presentation concentrates on the case of fully malicious security. Nevertheless, even the semi-honest version of our conversion is of interest, as it enjoys the same properties as the fully-malicious version, e.g., O(1) rounds, support for  $d \geq 2$  parties, and moreover its performance is competitive when compared to related work, see Section 4.4. Essentially, the semi-honest version is just the fully-malicious one as described in the next section, but does not include the actual FHE ZK proofs inside ZK Protocols.

## 3 Technical Details

For simplicity, we keep describing details for d=2 parties and extend to  $d\geq 2$  parties in Appendix B.

For their input bit strings  $I_1, I_2 \in \{0,1\}^*$  and function F, parties  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  want to compute  $O = F(I_1, I_2), O \in \{0,1\}^*$ . Function F is represented as a circuit composition of Boolean and arithmetic sub-circuits  $F = (C_m \circ \cdots \circ C_1)$ . Observe that if the  $i^{\text{th}}$  sub-circuit is Boolean, then the  $i+1^{\text{th}}$  is arithmetic and the other way around. We now turn toward technical details on how we enable maliciously-secure mixed-technique evaluation of sub-circuits. We show how to convert 2PC evaluation output of a Boolean sub-circuit  $C_i^{\text{Bool}}$  into input for a following arithmetic sub-circuit  $C_{i+1}^{\text{Arith}}$  for FHE evaluation and the other way around.

**2PC output bits for**  $P_1$  In a typical garbled circuit evaluation of  $C_i$ , only  $P_2$  receives output, i.e., bits  $o_j$ . If a specific bit  $o_j$  is a secret output bit for  $P_1$ , then a standard trick is denying  $P_2$  to open the last wire label for  $o_j$  and forwarding the label to  $P_1$ . As  $P_1$  knows both possible labels for  $o_j$ , they can recover bit  $o_j$ . Also, this ensures that  $P_1$  receives the correct output bit  $o'_j$  from  $P_2$ , i.e., ensure authenticity [6]. We silently rely on this trick for secure computation of all of  $P_1$ 's plain output bits for the rest of the paper.

Notation Let Commit denote a computationally hiding and binding commitment scheme. For some bit string  $B \in \{0,1\}^*$ , computational security parameter  $\lambda'$ , and randomness  $R \in \{0,1\}^{\lambda'}$ , Commit(B,R) outputs a commitment Com. Later in Appendix D, we show how to efficiently realize commitments with a white-box use of wire labels in garbled circuits. Encryption Enc over plaintext space M is fully (or somewhat) homomorphic. Both parties have already set up a key pair, where the public key is known to both parties, but the private key is shared. For homomorphic operations on ciphertexts, we use the intuitive notation of "+" for homomorphic addition, "·" for scalar multiplication, and  $\oplus$  for homomorphic XOR. So for example, if x and y are from M, then  $\mathrm{Dec}(\mathrm{Enc}(x) + \mathrm{Enc}(y)) = x + y$ . During conversion, we will randomly select scalars from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ , where p is a prime of  $\lambda$  bits.

Let  $\Pi$  be the set of two single bit permutations  $\pi:\{0,1\}\to\{0,1\}$ . That is,  $\Pi=\{\pi_0,\pi_1\}$  with  $\pi_0(x)=x$  and  $\pi_1(x)=1-x$ .

#### 3.1 ZK Protocols

Let  $(\omega_1, \ldots, \omega_n) = \gamma((\iota_{1,1}, \ldots, \iota_{1,\ell_1}), (\iota_{2,1}, \ldots, \iota_{2,\ell_2}))$  be any Boolean circuit which parties  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  want to evaluate using maliciously secure 2PC. Bits  $\iota_{1,i}$  are  $P_1$ 's input, and bits  $\iota_{2,i}$  are  $P_2$ 's input.

{6}------------------------------------------------

```
P_1
                                                                                                                                                                                          P_2
(input \iota_{1,1},\ldots,\iota_{1,\ell_1},c_{1,\ell_1} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\iota_{1,1}),
                                                                                                                                           (input \iota_{2,1},\ldots,\iota_{2,\ell_2},c_{1,1},\ldots,c_{1,\ell_1})
 \ldots, c_{1,\ell_1} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\iota_{1,\ell_1}))
\forall i \in \{1, \dots, \ell_1\} : \\ \mu_{i,1}, \dots, \mu_{i,\lambda} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^{\lambda}
                                                                                                                                         \sigma_{i,1}, \dots, \sigma_{i,\lambda} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^{\lambda}
R_{i,1}, \dots, R_{i,\lambda} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^{\lambda^{2}}
\mathsf{Com}_{i,1} = \mathsf{Commit}(\sigma_{i,1}, R_{i,1}),
|m_{i,1} \leftarrow \underline{\mathsf{E}}\mathsf{nc}(\mu_{i,1}), \ldots,
|m_{i,\lambda} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mu_{i,\lambda})|
                                                                                                          \forall j \in \{1,...,\lambda\}:
                                                                                                                                           \ldots, Com<sub>i,\lambda</sub> = Commit(\sigma_{i,\lambda}, R_{i,\lambda})
                                                                                                                 m_{i,j}
                                                                                                                Com_{i,j}
                                                                                                         2PC of \gamma^{(1)}
\forall i \in \{1,\ldots,\ell_1\}:
                                                                                                          \forall j \in \{1, \dots, \lambda\}:
                                                                                                             R_{i,j}, \sigma_{i,j}
|\mathbf{if}[\exists j: \mathsf{Commit}(\sigma_{i,j}, R_{i,j}) \neq \mathsf{Com}_{i,j}|
then abort
 \forall j : \mathbf{if} \ \sigma_{i,j} = 0 \ \mathbf{then} \ \mathrm{open}
                                                                                                          \lambda ZK proofs for
                                                                                                           ciphertexts_{i,j}
|\mathsf{Enc}(\iota_{i,j} \oplus \mu_{i,j})| else open m_{i,j}
                                                                                                                                          if ciphertext<sub>i,j</sub> does not match t_{i,j}
                                                                                                                                           then abort
```

Fig. 1: ZK Protocol (1) for circuit  $\gamma$ 

**ZK Protocol** (1) In this protocol,  $P_1$  proves to  $P_2$  that homomorphic ciphertexts  $c_{1,i} \leftarrow \text{Enc}(\iota_{1,i})$  encrypt all of  $P_1$ 's input bits  $\iota_{i,i}$  used during a 2PC evaluation of  $\gamma$ . Assume that  $P_1$  has already sent the  $c_{1,i}$  to  $P_2$ .

The protocol is depicted in Figure 1 and consists of two core building blocks: first, parties evaluate a modification of circuit  $\gamma$  which we call  $\gamma^{(1)}$ . We define circuit  $\gamma^{(1)}$  by specifying its input and output in Figure 2. The second building block is an actual three move ZK proof which encompasses  $\gamma^{(1)}$ .

First,  $P_1$  selects a random *masking* bit  $\mu_i$  and sends both  $c_{1,i}$  and  $m_i \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mu_i)$  to  $P_2$ . At the same time,  $P_2$  selects a random *choice* bit  $\sigma_i$ . Then, both parties use maliciously-secure 2PC and evaluate  $\gamma^{(1)}$  which internally computes  $\gamma$  as a sub-routine. Party  $P_1$  is the garbler and  $P_2$  the evaluator. In addition to outputting the same bits as  $\gamma$ , it also outputs bit  $t_i = \iota_{1,i} \oplus \mu_i$  (if  $\sigma_i = 0$ ) or  $t_i = \mu_i$  (if  $\sigma_i = 1$ ) to  $P_2$ .

After 2PC,  $P_2$  reveals their choice  $\sigma_i$ . If  $\sigma_i = 0$ , then  $P_1$  proves in ZK that the homomorphic XOR of ciphertexts  $c_{1,i}$  and  $m_i$  to  $\text{Enc}(\iota_{1,i} \oplus \mu_i)$  really encrypts  $t_i = \iota_{1,i} \oplus \mu_i$ . If  $\sigma_i = 1$ , then  $P_1$  proves that  $m_i$  encrypts  $t_i = \mu_i$ .

Output bit  $\alpha=0$  in  $\gamma^{(1)}$  only serves to indicate protocol failure, i.e., non-matching commitments.

If  $\sigma_{i,j} = 0$ , then  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  homomorphically compute ciphertext<sub>i,j</sub> =  $\text{Enc}(\iota_{1,i} \oplus \mu_{i,j})$  out of  $c_{1,i}$  and  $m_{i,j}$ . If choice bit  $\sigma_{i,j} = 1$ , then both parties set ciphertext<sub>i,j</sub> =  $m_{i,j}$ . Party  $P_1$  then sends a ZK proof that ciphertext<sub>i,j</sub> encrypts  $t_{i,j}$  to  $P_2$ , e.g., by applying an efficient framework for ZK proofs [2].

Note the general structure of ZK Protocol (1), which is similar in the other two ZK Protocols. Each ZK Protocol comprises a circuit modification technique, here converting  $\gamma$  to  $\gamma^{(1)}$ , and a surrounding ZK proof. When we will combine ZK Protocols later,

{7}------------------------------------------------

```
 \frac{P_1}{\iota_{1,1}, \dots, \iota_{1,\ell_1}, 1 \leq i \leq \ell_1 : [\mu_{i,1}, \dots, \mu_{i,\lambda}, \frac{\iota_{2,1}, \dots, \iota_{2,\ell_2}, 1 \leq i \leq \ell_1 : [\sigma_{i,1}, \dots, \sigma_{i,\lambda}, Com_{i,1}, \dots, Com_{i,\lambda}]}{R_{i,1}, \dots, R_{i,\lambda}} 
 \frac{Output \text{ of } \gamma^{(1)}}{1 \text{ if } \forall i, j, 1 \leq i \leq \ell_1, 1 \leq j \leq \lambda : Com_{i,j} = Commit(\sigma_{i,j}, R_{i,j}) \text{ then }}{2 \quad \alpha = 1;} 
 3 \quad (\omega_1, \dots, \omega_n) = \gamma((\iota_{1,1}, \dots, \iota_{1,\ell_1}), (\iota_{2,1}, \dots, \iota_{2,\ell_2})); 
 4 \quad \text{for } i = 1 \text{ to } \ell_1 \text{ and } j = 1 \text{ to } \lambda \text{ do } 
 5 \quad \text{if } \sigma_{i,j} = 0 \text{ then } t_{i,j} = \iota_{1,i} \oplus \mu_{i,j} \text{ else } t_{i,j} = \mu_{i,j}; 
 6 \quad \text{else } \alpha = \omega_1 = \dots = \omega_n = t_{1,1} = \dots = t_{\ell_1,\lambda} = 0; 
 7 \quad \text{output } \alpha, \omega_1, \dots, \omega_n, t_{1,1}, \dots, t_{\ell_1,\lambda};
```

Fig. 2: Definition of circuit  $\gamma^{(1)}$ 

we merge circuit modifications, i.e., output of one ZK Protocol's circuit modification will be input into another. Only surrounding ZK proofs require adoption.

**ZK Protocol** (2) This protocol reverses  $P_1$ 's and  $P_2$ 's roles in ZK Protocol (1). So, circuit  $\gamma^{(2)}$  is similar to  $\gamma^{(1)}$ , with  $P_1$  having choice bits (and randomness for commitments to them) as additional input, and  $P_2$  has masking bits and commitments to choice bits as input. During 2PC,  $P_1$  is the garbler and  $P_2$  the evaluator. Also, the actual three-move protocol from ZK Protocol (1) is reversed, i.e., it is  $P_2$  who starts by sending encryptions of input bits and masking bits. We omit further details to avoid repetition and refer to Figure 1.

**ZK Protocol** (3) In this protocol, party  $P_2$  proves to  $P_1$  that encryptions  $c_{\omega,i} \leftarrow \operatorname{Enc}(\omega_i)$  are encryptions of  $P_2$ 's output bits  $\omega_i$ . As ZK Protocol (3) is more involved, Figure 3 starts by presenting a slightly simpler version with a ZK proof which is only Honest-Verifier-Zero-Knowledge (HVZK), and details for fully-malicious security follow.

As part of ZK Protocol (3),  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  run 2PC on a modification of circuit  $\gamma$  called  $\gamma^{(3)}$ , defined in Figure 4.

Before 2PC,  $P_1$  selects, for an output bit  $\omega_i$ , two random bit strings  $v_{0,1}\dots v_{0,\lambda}$  and  $v_{1,1}\dots v_{1,\lambda}$  and sets  $V_0=0||v_{0,1}\dots v_{0,\lambda},V_1=1||v_{1,1}\dots v_{1,\lambda}$ . Here, "||" denotes concatenation, and  $\lambda$  is a statistical security parameter. Then,  $P_1$  encrypts and sends ciphertexts  $\Gamma_0=\operatorname{Enc}(V_0)$  and  $\Gamma_1=\operatorname{Enc}(V_1)$  to  $P_2$ . Circuit  $\gamma^{(3)}$  does not output  $\omega_i$  to  $P_2$ , but instead outputs  $V_{\omega_i}$  to  $P_2$ , i.e., either bit string  $V_0$  or bit string  $V_1$ .

The first bit of strings  $V_0, V_1$  is output bit  $\omega_i$ . That is,  $\Gamma_{\omega_i}$  encrypts a bit string, where the first bit represents  $P_2$ 's output bit  $\omega_i$ . So, after evaluating  $\gamma^{(3)}$ ,  $P_2$  gets  $\omega_i$  and a length  $\lambda$  bit string  $(v_{\omega_i,1}, \ldots, v_{\omega_i,\lambda})$ .

The trick is now that  $P_2$  proves in ZK to  $P_1$  that it knows a string  $V_{\omega_i}$  which is either  $V_0$  or  $V_1$  and which matches encryption  $c_{\omega,i}$ . Recall that the private key for homomorphic encryption Enc is shared between  $P_1$  and  $P_2$ , so none of the two parties can decrypt a ciphertext alone. After evaluating  $\gamma^{(3)}$ , party  $P_2$  sends  $\lambda+1$  ciphertexts  $c_{\omega,i}\leftarrow \operatorname{Enc}(\omega_i)$ ,  $\operatorname{Enc}(v_{\omega_i,1}),\ldots,\operatorname{Enc}(v_{\omega_i,\lambda})$  to  $P_1$ . Both parties use these ciphertexts to homomorphically generate  $\Gamma_2=\operatorname{Enc}(V_{\omega_i})$ , an encryption of the concatenation of  $P_2$ 's

{8}------------------------------------------------

```
\begin{array}{c} P_1\\ (\text{input } \iota_{1,1},\ldots,\iota_{1,\ell_1})\\ \forall i\in\{1,\ldots,n\}:\\ \hline \Gamma_{i,0,0}\leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(0), \Gamma_{i,1,0}\leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(1) \end{array}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P_2 (input \iota_{2,1},\ldots,\iota_{2,\ell_2})
        \forall j \in \{1,\ldots,\lambda\}:
       \begin{aligned} & [v_{i,0,j}, v_{i,1,j} \xleftarrow{\$} \{0,1\}^2 \\ & \varGamma_{i,0,j} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(v_{i,0,j}) \end{aligned} 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   \forall j \in \{0,...,\lambda\}:
        \Gamma_{i,1,j} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(v_{i,1,j})
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \underbrace{\frac{\Gamma_{i,0,j}, \Gamma_{i,1,j}}{\text{2PC of } \gamma^{(3)}(\text{see text})}}_{}
     \forall i \in \{1,\ldots,n\}:

\Gamma_{i,0} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,0,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,0} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,0,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,0} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,0,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,1} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,1,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{\lambda} (2^{\lambda-j} \cdot \Gamma_{i,2,j}) \qquad \Gamma_{i,2} = \sum_{j=0}^{
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p, \pi \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \Pi
\Delta'_{i,0} = a_i \cdot \Delta_{i,0}, \Delta'_{i,1} = a_i \cdot \Delta_{i,1}
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         \begin{array}{c} \Delta_{i,0}^{\prime}, \Delta_{i,1}^{\prime}, \Delta_{i,\pi(0)}^{\prime}, \Delta_{i,\pi(1)}^{\prime} \\ \text{ZK proof Scalar}_{i}, \text{ZK proof Shuffle}_{i} \end{array}
      if ZK proofs do
        not verify then abort
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        jointly decrypt\Delta'_{i,\pi(0)}, \Delta'_{i,\pi(1)}
     if none or both decrypt
     to 0 then abort
```

Fig. 3: ZK Protocol (3)

 $\lambda+1$  bits  $V_{\omega_i}$ . As both parties know  $\Gamma_0$  and  $\Gamma_1$ , they both homomorphically compute  $\Delta_0=\operatorname{Enc}(V_{\omega_i}-V_0)$  and  $\Delta_1=\operatorname{Enc}(V_{\omega_i}-V_1)$ . Observe that, if  $V_{\omega_i}$  is either  $V_0$  or  $V_1$ , then one of  $\Delta_0,\Delta_1$  encrypts a 0. Consequently,  $P_2$  proves to  $P_1$  in ZK that either  $\Delta_0$  or  $\Delta_1$  is an encryption of 0 (see below for details). If  $P_1$  successfully verifies proofs, parties jointly decrypt  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(0)}$  and  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(1)}$ . Note that decryption must include a ZK proof by  $P_2$  about correct (partial) decryption [2, 7, 10].

We run the above techniques for each output bit  $\omega_i$  in parallel.

**ZK Proof of** 0 Figure 3 also comprises details for the ZK proof, where  $P_2$  proves that either  $\Delta_{i,0}$  or  $\Delta_{i,1}$  encrypts a zero. In Figure 3,  $P_2$  blinds  $\Delta_{i,0}$  and  $\Delta_{i,1}$  by a random  $a_i$  resulting in  $\Delta'_{i,0}$  and  $\Delta'_{i,1}$ . Then,  $P_2$  prepares sub-ZK proof "Scalar<sub>i</sub>" which proves that  $\Delta'_{i,0}$ ,  $\Delta'_{i,1}$  are the result of multiplying  $\Delta_{i,0}$ ,  $\Delta_{i,1}$  by the same secret scalar  $a_i$ . While such a proof is standard, e.g.,  $P_2$  could also simply publish the encryption of  $a_i$ , and  $P_1$  computes  $\Delta'_{i,0}$ ,  $\Delta'_{i,1}$  themselves. Party  $P_2$  completes the ZK proof by re-encrypting  $\Delta'_{i,0}$  and  $\Delta'_{i,1}$ , choosing a random 1-bit permutation  $\pi$  from  $\Pi$ , and preparing ZK proof Shuffle<sub>i</sub> which proves that  $(\Delta'_{i,\pi(0)}, \Delta'_{i,\pi(1)})$  is a random shuffle of  $(\Delta'_{i,0}, \Delta'_{i,1})$ . Proofs

{9}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-9-0"></span>
$$\frac{P_1}{\iota_{1,1}, \dots, \iota_{1,\ell_1}, 1 \leq i \leq n : [v_{i,0,1}, \dots, \iota_{2,1}, \dots, \iota_{2,\ell_2}]}{v_{i,0,\lambda}, v_{i,1,1}, \dots, v_{i,1,\lambda}]}$$

$$\frac{\text{Output of } \gamma^{(3)}}{\iota_{1}(\omega_{1}, \dots, \omega_{n}) = \gamma((\iota_{1,1}, \dots, \iota_{1,\ell_{1}}), (\iota_{2,1}, \dots, \iota_{2,\ell_{2}}));}{\iota_{2} \text{ for } i = 1 \text{ to } n \text{ do output } \omega_{i} || v_{i,\omega_{i},1} \cdots v_{i,\omega_{i},\lambda};}$$

Fig. 4: Definition of circuit  $\gamma^{(3)}$ 

of two-element shuffles are also straightforward. For example,  $P_2$  could encrypt a random bit to ciphertext  $\beta$ , send  $\beta$  to  $P_1$ , and prove that ciphertext  $\beta - \beta^2$  encrypts a 0. Such a proof can be also implemented by, e.g., reverting to an efficient general proof [2] or by opening randomness of ciphertext  $\beta - \beta^2$ . Party  $P_1$  then computes  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(0)} = \beta \cdot \Delta'_{i,0} + (\operatorname{Enc}(1) - \beta) \cdot \Delta'_{i,1}$  and  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(1)} = (\operatorname{Enc}(1) - \beta) \cdot \Delta'_{i,0} + \beta \cdot \Delta'_{i,1}$  themselves.

**HVZK to Fully-Malicious Security** For fully-malicious security, we replace 2PC evaluation of  $\gamma^{(3)}$  from Figure 3 by using ZK Protocol (1). More specifically, instead of 2PC evaluation of  $\gamma^{(3)}$ , we run ZK Protocol (1) for circuit  $\gamma^{(3)}$  with both the  $\iota_{1,i}$  and the  $\iota_{i,0,j}, \iota_{i,1,j}$  as  $P_i$ 's input bits, and the  $\iota_{2,i}$  as  $P_i$ 's input bits. To run ZK Protocol (1),  $P_i$  sends encryptions  $\Gamma_{i,0,j}, \Gamma_{i,1,j}$  to  $P_i$  (as well as dummy encryptions of the  $\iota_{1,i}$ ). As a result of running ZK Protocol (1) of  $\gamma^{(3)}$  instead of direct 2PC of  $\gamma^{(3)}$ ,  $P_i$  can verify that the  $\Gamma_{i,0}, \Gamma_{i,1}$  are correct encryptions of  $P_i$ 's input to  $\gamma^{(3)}$ . Note that the output bits received by  $P_i$  after running ZK Protocol (1) comprise all output bits of circuit  $\gamma^{(3)}$ .

#### 3.2 Composition of ZK Protocols

Our ZK Protocols can be composed in a natural way, i.e., ZK Protocol (1), (2), and (3) can be jointly used on a single circuit  $\gamma$ . Protocol steps before and after 2PC evaluation of the modified circuit  $\gamma$  are executed in parallel. Different modifications of ZK Protocols (1) to (3) to circuit  $\gamma$  are merged into one large garbled circuit. This large circuit comprises  $\gamma$ 's and all modifications' functionality and uses  $P_1$ 's and  $P_2$ 's input sets once. Thus, inputs  $\iota_{1,i}$  and  $\iota_{2,i}$  are only used once and their wires are connected to all sub-functions of the large circuit. All other necessary inputs  $\mu_{i,j}$ ,  $\sigma_{i,j}$ , and  $v_{\omega,j}$  are present for their respective input and outputs. This ensures the same functionality of the large circuit as the sub-functions due to its security against malicious adversaries. Protocol steps outside of 2PC operate on distinct inputs and hence are non-interfering under parallel composition. We can compose the conversion routines in a natural way. Figures 5 and 6 depict the details of the conversion from FHE to 2PC and reverse, respectively.

### 3.3 Security Analysis

<span id="page-9-1"></span>ZK Protocols (1) to (3) prove that the plaintext of an FHE ciphertext (under a shared key) and the input or output, respectively, of a 2PC are identical. They hence enable to compose FHE computations with 2PC protocols in a joint, maliciously secure protocol.

{10}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-10-0"></span>
$$\begin{array}{c} P_1 \\ (\operatorname{input} \ c_1, \dots, c_\ell) \\ \forall i \in \{1, \dots, \ell\} : \\ \hline \\ s_i \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}, \\ c_i' \leftarrow \operatorname{Enc}(s_i) \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus c_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus c_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus s_i' \\ \hline \\ c_i'' = c_i \oplus$$

Fig. 5: FHE to 2PC conversion

Fig. 6: 2PC to FHE conversion

**Theorem 1.** ZK Protocols (1) to (3) are (a) complete, i.e., an honest verifier accepts the proof, if the prover provides consistent input, (b) zero-knowledge, i.e., any verifier learns nothing about the prover's witness except that it satisfies the proof, and (c) sound, i.e., an honest verifier rejects the proof with overwhelming probability in the security parameter  $\lambda$ , if the prover's secret input is not a witness for the proof.

We prove Theorem 1 in Appendix C.

## <span id="page-10-1"></span>4 Application to Private Set Disjointness

To indicate their usefulness, we apply our mixed-technique conversions to the area of private set analytics. In particular, we design a new solution to the problem of securely, yet efficiently computing private set disjointness (PSD). In PSD, parties compute whether their sets' intersection is empty without revealing the intersection itself. While protocols computing PSD have been presented before [19, 22, 28, 35, 36, 46, 67], our new solution features several advantages which, in combination, is unique: any number of  $d \geq 2$  parties, fully-malicious security, circuit-based computations, and high efficiency (also due to a constant number of rounds). Computing PSD with a circuit-based approach is of special interest, as variations of PSD, like whether the size of the intersection is larger than a threshold, or other set statistics can then be computed easily, see discussions in [55, 57].

Each party  $P_i$  has an n element input set  $S_i = \{e_{i,1}, \ldots, e_{i,n}\}$  with elements  $e_{i,j} \in \{0,1\}^\ell$ . We present a protocol where parties securely compute whether the intersection of the  $S_i$  is empty, i.e.,  $|\bigcap_{i=1}^d S_i| \stackrel{?}{=} 0$ . Crucially, we do not leak the size of the intersection or any other information about the intersection or elements  $e_{i,j}$ . Assume that parties have previously computed a distributed private key with corresponding public key for a fully or somewhat homomorphic encryption scheme. Separately, each party  $P_i$  has a public-private key pair, where the public key is known to all parties. So, parties can securely communicate.

{11}------------------------------------------------

#### 4.1 PSD Protocol Overview

We present a new circuit-based approach to compute PSD. At its core, parties compare their elements by evaluating a Boolean sub-circuit with pairwise 2PC in a star topology. The outcome of 2PC comparisons then serves as input to FHE evaluations.

Hash Table Preparation Initially, parties hash their input elements into hash tables. This is a typical approach of recent protocols for PSI, see Pinkas et al. [56] for an overview. Specifically, each party  $P_i$  starts by creating an empty hash table  $T_i$  with  $m \in O(\frac{n}{\log n})$  buckets. To cope with possible hash collisions with very high probability, each bucket comprises a total of  $\beta \in O(\log n)$  entries [58, 60]. Each entry has space to store  $\ell$  bits. Let  $T_i[j,k]$  denote the  $k^{\text{th}}$  entry in the  $j^{\text{th}}$  bucket  $T_i[j]$  of  $P_i$ 's hash table  $T_i$ .

After initializing hash table  $T_i$ , each party  $P_i$  iterates over their input elements, writing element  $e_{i,j}$  into bucket  $T_i[h(e_{i,j}), u]$ , where u is the first empty entry in  $T_i$ 's  $m^{\text{th}}$  bucket. All remaining entries in the hash table are filled with random bit strings.

**Mixed-Circuit Evaluation** Parties elect a leader, w.l.o.g. the leader is  $P_1$ . The main idea to compute PSD is that, for a randomly chosen r, the following function F is evaluated securely:

$$F = r \cdot \sum_{j=1}^{m} \sum_{k=1}^{\beta} \prod_{i=2}^{d} \left[ \bigvee_{u=1}^{\beta} (T_1[j,k] \stackrel{?}{=} T_i[j,u]) \right].$$

Function F implements PSD, as sets  $S_i$  are disjoint iff F evaluates to 0. The rationale behind F is that the intersection is not empty if and only if there exists an entry in a bucket of  $P_1$ 's table which equals an entry of the same bucket in all other parties' tables.

We already define F using a mixed arithmetic and Boolean notation, suggesting a direct application of our mixed-techniques for 2PC-FHE evaluation. To securely evaluate F, we set up a simple star topology where leader  $P_1$  interacts pairwise with each other party  $P_i$  to compute inner parts  $f_{i,j,k} = \left[\bigvee_{u=1}^{\beta} (T_1[j,k] \stackrel{?}{=} T_i[j,u])\right]$  with 2PC. For the  $k^{\text{th}}$  entry in their  $j^{\text{th}}$  bucket  $T_1[j,k]$ ,  $P_1$  evaluates with  $P_i$  a separate 2PC circuit which implements  $f_{i,j,k}$ . Using our 2PC to FHE conversion, output of each  $f_{i,j,k}$  2PC evaluation is a homomorphic encryption of its output bit which we denote by  $\text{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$ . After all 2PC computations,  $P_1$  sends the  $\text{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$  to all other parties which continue computing F homomorphically.

The final multiplication of the output by (a random) r in the encrypted domain is realized by each party  $P_i$  randomly selecting  $r_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} M$  and sending  $\operatorname{Enc}(r_i)$  to other parties. All parties homomorphically compute  $\operatorname{Enc}(r) = \sum_{i=1}^d \operatorname{Enc}(r_i)$  and multiply the output by  $\operatorname{Enc}(r)$  to get  $\operatorname{Enc}(F)$  which is then jointly decrypted. Without multiplying by r, parties would learn the size of the intersection.

#### 4.2 Malicious Security for PSD

Although 2PC, our conversion, and homomorphic evaluations are secure against malicious adversaries, we need to extend our current security model from two parties to the case of d parties. Consequently, we now show that adding our ZK protocols leads to a multi-party protocol secure in the malicious model, despite the fact that both parties of a two-party computation can be malicious (including the leader).

{12}------------------------------------------------

Recall that after 2PC to FHE conversion, both parties  $P_1$  and  $P_i$  have proven to each other correct computation of  $c = \operatorname{Enc}(s)$  and  $c' = \operatorname{Enc}(s')$ . They homomorphically combine c and c' to  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k}) = \operatorname{Enc}(s \oplus s')$ . The new challenge when dealing with d > 2 parties is that both  $P_1$  and  $P_i$  can be malicious, fabricate various different  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$ , and send different  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$  to different other parties.

To mitigate, one could somehow run ZK proofs in public such that all other parties automatically observe the correct  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$ , but this is expensive. A more elegant solution would be that both parties  $P_1$  and  $P_i$  sign  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$  at the end of their conversion, and  $P_i$  sends their signature to  $P_1$ . Then,  $P_1$  could use secure echo broadcast [25] to send  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$  and both signatures of  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$  to all parties. As a result, all parties would receive the same  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$  and verify that  $P_1$  and  $P_i$  have agreed on it.

An interesting situation occurs when both  $P_1$  and  $P_i$  are malicious and agree on a wrong  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$ . For example,  $P_1$  and  $P_i$  could agree on  $\operatorname{Enc}(0)$  even though  $P_i$  has an entry  $e_{i,u}$  in its  $j^{\text{th}}$  bucket which equals an entry  $e_{1,k}$  in  $P_1$ 's  $j^{\text{th}}$  bucket. Note that this is not an attack, as the adversary can anyway control  $P_i$ 's input and set it to arbitrary values. So, the above case would be equivalent to the adversary setting  $P_i$ 's input  $e_{i,u}$  to something different from  $e_{1,k}$  in the first place. The only property  $P_1$  and  $P_i$  have to prove to all other parties is that ciphertext  $\operatorname{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$  encrypts a bit.

As neither  $P_1$  nor  $P_i$  know  $f_{i,j,k}$ , we use a different strategy. Party  $P_1$  proves in ZK that c encrypts a bit, and  $P_i$  proves that c' encrypts a bit. Parties broadcast c and c' with both proofs. Using c and c' all parties compute  $\mathsf{Enc}(f_{i,j,k})$  homomorphically.

Finally, to force  $P_1$  to always use the same inputs during pairwise comparisons with different  $P_i$ , we require  $P_1$  to initially commit to its input using FHE ciphertexts and securely broadcast those ciphertexts to all other parties. The consistency of inputs is then verified using ZK Protocol (1).

**Joint decryption** Recall that the 2PC to FHE conversion internally runs ZK Protocol (3) and requires a joint decryption between  $P_1$  and  $P_i$ . In the case of d>2 parties, joint decryption is still possible, but involves all d parties. So, both  $P_1$  and  $P_i$  broadcast a request to decrypt the current  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(0)}$  and  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(1)}$ , and all parties reply to  $P_1$  with their share of the decryption (plus proof of correct decryption). Note that this does not change our total message complexity. We need to run O(1) broadcasts for each  $f_{i,j,k}$  anyway.

#### 4.3 Complexity Analysis

Due to space constraints, we present and compare complexities of our mixed-techniques approach for evaluating F with related schemes in Appendix E.

#### <span id="page-12-0"></span>4.4 Implementation

We have implemented our private set disjointness variant with 2PC to FHE conversion and performed micro-benchmarks. We will release our code into open source upon publication of the paper.

Our implementation of 2PC-part  $f_{i,j,k}$  is done in the framework by Wang et al. [65] and maliciously secure. Yet, none of the common FHE libraries (HELib, PALISADE, SEAL, TFHE) provides both distributed key generation with threshold encryption and ZK proofs, which we need for maliciously-secure conversion. Moreover, an implementation of a FHE scheme with threshold decryption and ZK proofs, e.g., based on the

{13}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-13-0"></span>Table 1: Online time (s) to evaluate F, our scheme vs semi-honest and maliciously secure SPDZ vs BMR vs FHE. 2PC: communication time for circuit evaluation of all mβd circuits ((γShare ′ (1))(3))(1), BC: communication time for broadcasting shares and partial decryptions, FHE Comp: computation time for arithmetic part, DNF: does not finish in 15min

|        |    | Ours ("Semi-Malicious") |      |       | Semi-Honest |        | Malicious |       |       |
|--------|----|-------------------------|------|-------|-------------|--------|-----------|-------|-------|
| n      | d  |                         |      | FHE   | Total       | SPDZSH | FHE       | SPDZ  | BMR   |
|        |    | 2PC                     | BC   | Comp  |             | Total  | Total     | Total | Total |
| 32     | 5  | 2.2                     | 1.1  | 1.0   | 4.3         | 10.1   | 141.7     | 16.4  | 8.5   |
|        | 10 | 3.9                     | 1.8  | 1.8   | 7.5         | 13.8   | 283.0     | 33.1  | 24.3  |
|        | 20 | 7.6                     | 5.5  | 3.6   | 16.6        | 48.8   | 565.5     | 50.3  | Crash |
|        | 40 | 14.8                    | 17.6 | 7.1   | 39.5        | 130.3  | DNF       | 215.7 | Crash |
| 64     | 5  | 4.7                     | 1.4  | 2.3   | 8.4         | 22.7   | 406.9     | 35.6  | 18.5  |
|        | 10 | 9.0                     | 3.4  | 4.4   | 16.8        | 32.6   | 813.1     | 72.4  | 66.6  |
|        | 20 | 18.0                    | 10.7 | 8.6   | 37.3        | 101.5  | DNF       | 248.2 | Crash |
|        | 40 | 35.9                    | 40.9 | 17.0  | 93.8        | 265.8  | DNF       | 784.3 | Crash |
| 128    | 5  | 10.7                    | 2.2  | 5.4   | 18.3        | 52.3   | DNF       | 117.5 | 43.0  |
|        | 10 | 20.8                    | 6.6  | 10.3  | 37.7        | 84.6   | DNF       | 356.7 | Crash |
|        | 20 | 41.8                    | 24.2 | 20.1  | 86.1        | 358.1  | DNF       | 675.8 | Crash |
|        | 40 | 83.3                    | 95.3 | 39.7  | 218.3       | 546.3  | DNF       | DNF   | Crash |
| 1024 5 |    | 121.2                   | 17.5 | 61.6  | 200.4       | 727.3  | DNF       | DNF   | DNF   |
| 2048 5 |    | 265.0                   | 37.5 | 135.5 | 438.0       | DNF    | DNF       | DNF   | DNF   |

one by Asharov et al. [\[2\]](#page-16-15), deserves its own paper. Thus, for the arithmetic part of F, we have only implemented and benchmarked arithmetic operations with FHE (using TFHE [\[15,](#page-16-21) [16\]](#page-16-22) for its simplicity), but not FHE ZK proofs, i.e., a semi-honest secure conversion. We dub the security setting of our implementation as "semi-malicious": 2PC is maliciously secure, but the conversion is only semi-honest secure. This setting is at least as strong as semi-honest security, but weaker than malicious security.

More specifically, we have implemented the actual circuit which is evaluated as part of the 2PC to FHE conversion of fi,j,k, namely ((γShare ′ (1))(3))(1). Here, circuit γShare ′ is the modification to fi,j,k due to conversion, γShare ′ (1) is the modification implied by ZK Protocol (1) on top of that, (γShare ′ (1))(3) the modification by ZK Protocol (3) on top of that, and ((γShare ′ (1))(3))(1) the modification by ZK Protocol (1) running inside ZK Protocol (3).

For all benchmarks, we set m = n 2 , β = log n, and consider ℓ = 32 bit integers as the elements in each party's set. It is well known that communication time due to latency between parties is a dominating factor regarding total runtime, especially for the 2PC part. For example, raw computation time of evaluating a single ((γShare ′ (1))(3))(1) circuit for β = 5 takes only 1.2 ms on a single 1.6 GHz Core i5, but all computations can run in parallel on different cores. So, an Amazon EC2 C5d instance with 96 cores computes 80, 000 circuits per second. However, network traffic, i.e., exchanging 177 KByte of data between P<sup>1</sup> and P<sup>i</sup> during evaluation of that circuit, cannot be parallelized. Instead, we can only sequentially send all data for all circuits, and network latency is here the crucial parameter. While latency of (intercontinental) WAN traffic 

{14}------------------------------------------------

is often unstable and can go over 250 ms [64], we run benchmarks on one machine to better control network behavior and use netem [52] to set latency to a modest 70 ms. As a result of this latency, we measured data goodput over TCP to be only 330 MBit/s on the localhost network (a higher latency would imply less goodput).

In Table 1, 2PC denotes the time to compute all  $((\gamma_{Share}'(1))(3))(1)$ . BC denotes the time for all broadcasts of shares  $c_i, c_i'$  after 2PC to all parties (one TFHE ciphertext has size 2.5 KByte) plus the time to broadcast a partial decryption of the final result after FHE from each party (a partial decryption is one TFHE ciphertext). FHE Comp is the time, for each party, to compute the arithmetic part of F in TFHE.

For comparison, we have also implemented F in the popular MP-SPDZ framework [32] and benchmarked with both their semi-honest (SPDZ<sup>SH</sup>) and maliciously secure SPDZ variants as well as BMR [33]. SPDZ Total and BMR Total are their total (online) times to compute F. FHE Total is the total time of a semi-honest "pure-FHE" implementation of F with TFHE, including broadcasting each party's  $m\beta\ell$  ciphertexts to all other parties. Note that BMR crashes even for a small number of parties, e.g., n=128, d=10, or quickly runs out of memory (> 32 GByte) for  $d \ge 20$  parties.

Looking at Table 1, our implementation outperforms semi-honest and maliciously secure SPDZ, BMR, and FHE in all considered settings. While SPDZ and BMR are competitive for a small number of parties, BMR fails due to its memory consumption, and our composition from 2PC clearly shows better scalability than SPDZ for larger numbers of parties.

While timings for our "semi-malicious" implementation look promising regarding a potential maliciously secure implementation, we do not have such an implementation for the above stated reasons. However, observing that our techniques outperform even semi-honest SPDZ while offering stronger security guarantees leads to an interesting conclusion of our evaluation. Our mixed-techniques protocols might already serve as an alternative to standard semi-honest MPC in scenarios with a star topology, i.e., where a multi-party protocol can be decomposed into multiple 2PC protocols.

#### 5 Related Work

Mixed-Techniques MPC Several previous works combine different MPC techniques to mitigate individual techniques' drawbacks. Kolesnikov et al. are among the first to present a conversion between garbled circuits and (additively) homomorphic encryption in the two-party semi-honest model [37, 39]. Extending their conversion to also support fully-malicious adversaries is non-trivial: in Appendix D of [38], they present honest-verifier zero-knowledge proofs which render the protocol secure only if at most one party is malicious. However, HVZK is insufficient, if proofs are part of a scenario with more than two parties where more than one party can be malicious.

A long line of research has focused on making mixed-techniques practical and efficient. Henecka et al. [27] design practical tools for conversion between garbled circuits and additively homomorphic encryption. Their conversion targets semi-honest adversaries and circuits for two parties. Demmler et al. [21] present a two party framework to convert between arithmetic sharing, Boolean sharing, and garbled circuits in the semi-honest model, and so do Riazi et al. [59]. Mohassel and Rindal [49] extend to three parties with malicious security. Again in the semi-honest model for two parties, Juvekar

{15}------------------------------------------------

et al. [\[31\]](#page-16-24) switch between garbled circuits and additively homomorphic encryption, and Buscher et al. [\[13\]](#page-16-3) switch between arithmetic and Boolean sharing. Rotaru and Wood ¨ [\[61\]](#page-17-24) and Aly et al. [\[1\]](#page-15-0) convert between MPC based on arithmetic secret sharing and garbled circuits with malicious security.

For completeness sake, we mention that other powerful MPC frameworks besides SPDZ exist, e.g., the purely circuit-based EMP-Toolkit [\[66\]](#page-18-7). Also note that FHE is often combined with (arithmetic) MPC to prepare multiplication triplets during offline phases, as in, e.g., SPDZ and follow-up works [\[3,](#page-16-25) [34\]](#page-17-25).

(Multi-Party) PSI and Disjointness While seminal works in PSI are based on dedicated protocols [\[47\]](#page-17-26), recent papers use a circuit-based approach (see Pinkas et al. [\[54\]](#page-17-27) for an overview), culminating in solutions with asymptotically optimal communication complexity and practical constants [\[57\]](#page-17-16). In theory, such circuit-based approaches can be used to also compute disjointness, but they all focus on the two-party setting with semi-honest security.

Hazay and Venkitasubramaniam [\[26\]](#page-16-26) present a maliciously-secure multi-party PSI protocol based on oblivious polynomial evaluation (OPE). Similar to previous ideas [\[22\]](#page-16-18), OPE could then be combined with a maliciously-secure 2PC to compute disjointness. However, already computing the intersection is expensive with this approach, requiring O(n 2 ) modular exponentiations. Kolesnikov et al. [\[40\]](#page-17-28) present an efficient multi-party PSI protocol in the semi-honest model using only symmetric encryption. However, PSI protocols cannot be easily converted into PSI analytics protocols (not disclosing the intersection) while maintaining efficiency [\[55,](#page-17-15) [57\]](#page-17-16). Other works have considered computing set disjointness, but these target semi-honest security and/or only two parties [\[19,](#page-16-17) [22,](#page-16-18) [28,](#page-16-19) [35,](#page-17-12) [36,](#page-17-13) [46,](#page-17-14) [67\]](#page-18-5)

Comparing to related work, our work fills a gap with 1) a solution which converts between FHE and garbled circuits, 2) supports any number of parties, and 3) provides malicious security. We use this to present the first multi-party PSI analytics protocol whose communication complexity scales only quadratically in the number of participants d.

## 6 Conclusions

In this paper we have shown a new construction of secure multi-party computation techniques. We have shown i) how to combine them using multiple cryptographic techniques (garbled circuits and FHE), ii) how to combine them from two-party computations keeping communication cost low for important functions, such as private set analytics, and iii) how to make them secure against malicious adversaries. It is future work to implement and evaluate the runtime of our zero-knowledge protocols that make our construction maliciously secure. However, we analyzed its complexity and provided an implementation in the semi-honest model showing that our work outperforms existing approaches. The performance advantages stems from a reduction of the communication and round complexity which is critical for multi-party computations with many participants and their adoption in practice.

## Bibliography

<span id="page-15-0"></span>[1] A. Aly, E. Orsini, D. Rotaru, N.P. Smart, and T. Wood. Zaphod: Efficiently Combining LSSS and Garbled Circuits in SCALE. In *ACM WAHC*, 2019.

{16}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-16-15"></span>[2] G. Asharov, A. Jain, A. López-Alt, E. Tromer, V. Vaikuntanathan, and D. Wichs. Multiparty Computation with Low Communication, Computation and Interaction via Threshold FHE. In *EUROCRYPT*, 2012.
- <span id="page-16-25"></span>[3] C. Baum, D. Cozzo, and N.P. Smart. Using TopGear in Overdrive: A More Efficient ZKPoK for SPDZ. In *SAC*, 2019.
- <span id="page-16-6"></span>[4] A. Bay, Z. Erkin, M. Alishahi, and J. Vos. Multi-party private set intersection protocols for practical applications. In *SECRYPT*, 2021.
- <span id="page-16-0"></span>[5] D. Beaver, S. Micali, and P. Rogaway. The Round Complexity of Secure Protocols (Extended Abstract). In *ACM STOC*, 1990.
- <span id="page-16-16"></span>[6] M. Bellare, V.T. Hoang, and P. Rogaway. Foundations of garbled circuits. In *ACM CCS*, 2012.
- <span id="page-16-10"></span>[7] R. Bendlin and I. Damgård. Threshold Decryption and Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Lattice-Based Cryptosystems. In *TCC*, 2010.
- <span id="page-16-11"></span>[8] F. Benhamouda, J. Camenisch, S. Krenn, V. Lyubashevsky, and G. Neven. Better Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Lattice Encryption and Their Application to Group Signatures. In *ASIACRYPT*, 2014.
- <span id="page-16-9"></span>[9] E.-O. Blass and F. Kerschbaum. Strain: A Secure Auction for Blockchains. In *ESORICS*, 2018.
- <span id="page-16-12"></span>[10] D. Boneh, R. Gennaro, S. Goldfeder, A. Jain, S. Kim, P.M.R. Rasmussen, and A. Sahai. Threshold Cryptosystems from Threshold Fully Homomorphic Encryption. In *CRYPTO*, 2018.
- <span id="page-16-1"></span>[11] Z. Brakerski, C. Gentry, and V. Vaikuntanathan. (Leveled) fully homomorphic encryption without bootstrapping. In *ITCS*, 2012.
- <span id="page-16-7"></span>[12] P. Branco, N. Döttling, and S. Pu. Multiparty Cardinality Testing for Threshold Private Intersection. In *PKC*, 2021.
- <span id="page-16-3"></span>[13] N. Büscher, D. Demmler, S. Katzenbeisser, D. Kretzmer, and T. Schneider. HyCC: Compilation of Hybrid Protocols for Practical Secure Computation. In *ACM CCS*, 2018.
- <span id="page-16-29"></span>[14] O. Catrina and S. de Hoogh. Improved Primitives for Secure Multiparty Integer Computation. In *SCN*, 2010.
- <span id="page-16-21"></span>[15] I. Chillotti, N. Gama, M. Georgieva, and M. Izabachène. TFHE: Fast Fully Homomorphic Encryption Library, 2016. https://tfhe.github.io/tfhe/.
- <span id="page-16-22"></span>[16] I. Chillotti, N. Gama, M. Georgieva, and M. Izabachène. TFHE: Fast Fully Homomorphic Encryption Over the Torus. *J. Cryptology*, 33(1), 2020.
- <span id="page-16-13"></span>[17] I. Damgård and A. López-Alt. Zero-Knowledge Proofs with Low Amortized Communication from Lattice Assumptions. In *SCN*, 2012.
- <span id="page-16-14"></span>[18] I. Damgård, V. Pastro, N. P. Smart, and S. Zakarias. Multiparty Computation from Somewhat Homomorphic Encryption. In *CRYPTO*, 2012.
- <span id="page-16-17"></span>[19] A. Davidson and C. Cid. An Efficient Toolkit for Computing Private Set Operations. In *ACISP*, 2017.
- <span id="page-16-8"></span>[20] S. Debnath, P. Stanica, N. Kundu, and T. Choudhury. Secure and efficient multiparty private set intersection cardinality. *Advances in Mathematics of Communications*, 15(2), 2021.
- <span id="page-16-4"></span>[21] D. Demmler, T. Schneider, and M. Zohner. ABY - A Framework for Efficient Mixed-Protocol Secure Two-Party Computation. In *NDSS*, 2015.
- <span id="page-16-18"></span>[22] M.J. Freedman, K. Nissim, and B. Pinkas. Efficient Private Matching and Set Intersection. In *EUROCRYPT*, 2004.
- <span id="page-16-2"></span>[23] C. Gentry. Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In ACM STOC, 2009.
- <span id="page-16-27"></span>[24] S. Goldfeder. A Boolean Circuit for SHA-256, 2019. http://stevengoldfeder.com/projects/circuits/sha2circuit.html.
- <span id="page-16-20"></span>[25] S. Goldwasser and Y. Lindell. Secure Multi-Party Computation without Agreement. *J. Cryptology*, 18(3), 2005.
- <span id="page-16-26"></span>[26] C. Hazay and M. Venkitasubramaniam. Scalable Multi-party Private Set-Intersection. In *PKC*, 2017.
- <span id="page-16-23"></span>[27] W. Henecka, S. Kögl, A.-R. Sadeghi, T. Schneider, and I. Wehrenberg. TASTY: tool for automating secure two-party computations. In *ACM CCS*, 2010.
- <span id="page-16-19"></span>[28] S. Hohenberger and S.A. Weis. Honest-Verifier Private Disjointness Testing Without Random Oracles. In *PET*, 2006.
- <span id="page-16-5"></span>[29] M. Ishaq, A. Milanova, and V. Zikas. Efficient MPC via Program Analysis: A Framework for Efficient Optimal Mixing. In *ACM CCS*, 2019.
- <span id="page-16-28"></span>[30] M. Jawurek, F. Kerschbaum, and C. Orlandi. Zero-knowledge using garbled circuits: how to prove non-algebraic statements efficiently. In *ACM CCS*, 2013.
- <span id="page-16-24"></span>[31] C. Juvekar, V. Vaikuntanathan, and A. Chandrakasan. GAZELLE: A Low Latency Framework for Secure Neural Network Inference. In *USENIX Security*, 2018.

{17}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-17-21"></span>[32] M. Keller. MP-SPDZ: A versatile framework for multi-party computation. IACR ePrint 2020/521, 2020.
- <span id="page-17-0"></span>[33] M. Keller and A. Yanai. Efficient Maliciously Secure Multiparty Computation for RAM. In EUROCRYPT, 2018.
- <span id="page-17-25"></span>[34] M. Keller, V. Pastro, and D. Rotaru. Overdrive: Making SPDZ Great Again. In EURO-*CRYPT*, 2018.
- <span id="page-17-12"></span>[35] A. Kiayias and A. Mitrofanova. Testing Disjointness of Private Datasets. In FC, 2005.
- <span id="page-17-13"></span>[36] L. Kissner and D. Xiaodong Song. Privacy-Preserving Set Operations. In CRYPTO, 2005.
- <span id="page-17-22"></span>[37] V. Kolesnikov, A.-R. Sadeghi, and T. Schneider. Improved Garbled Circuit Building Blocks and Applications to Auctions and Computing Minima. In CANS, 2009.
- <span id="page-17-5"></span>[38] V. Kolesnikov, A.-R. Sadeghi, and T. Schneider. From dust to dawn: Practically efficient two-party secure function evaluation protocols and their modular design. IACR ePrint 2010/079, 2010.
- <span id="page-17-4"></span>[39] V. Kolesnikov, A.-R. Sadeghi, and T. Schneider. A systematic approach to practically efficient general two-party secure function evaluation protocols and their modular design. J. *Computer Security*, 21(2), 2013.
- <span id="page-17-28"></span>[40] V. Kolesnikov, N. Matania, B. Pinkas, M. Rosulek, and N. Trieu. Practical Multi-party Private Set Intersection from Symmetric-Key Techniques. In *ACM CCS*, 2017. [41] V. Kolesnikov, J.B. Nielsen, M. Rosulek, N. Trieu, and R. Trifiletti. DUPLO: Unifying
- <span id="page-17-8"></span>Cut-and-Choose for Garbled Circuits. In ACM CCS, 2017.
- <span id="page-17-9"></span>[42] Y. Lindell. Fast Cut-and-Choose-Based Protocols for Malicious and Covert Adversaries. J. *Cryptology*, 29(2), 2016.
- <span id="page-17-1"></span>[43] Y. Lindell, N.P. Smart, and E. Soria-Vazquez. More Efficient Constant-Round Multi-party Computation from BMR and SHE. In *TCC*, 2016.
- <span id="page-17-2"></span>[44] Y. Lindell, B. Pinkas, N.P. Smart, and A. Yanai. Efficient Constant-Round Multi-party Computation Combining BMR and SPDZ. J. Cryptology, 32(3), 2019.
- <span id="page-17-6"></span>[45] R. Akhavan Mahdavi, T. Humphries, B. Kacsmar, S. Krastnikov, N. Lukas, J. Premkumar, M. Shafieinejad, S. Oyan, F. Kerschbaum, and E.-O. Blass. Practical Over-Threshold Multi-Party Private Set Intersection. In ACSAC, 2020.
- <span id="page-17-14"></span>[46] L. Marconi, M. Conti, and R. Di Pietro. CED<sup>2</sup>: Communication Efficient Disjointness Decision. In SECURECOMM, 2010.
- <span id="page-17-26"></span>[47] C.A. Meadows. A More Efficient Cryptographic Matchmaking Protocol for Use in the Absence of a Continuously Available Third Party. In *IEEE S&P*, 1986.
- <span id="page-17-29"></span>[48] C. Aguilar Melchor, M.-O. Killijian, C. Lefebvre, and T. Ricosset. A Comparison of the Homomorphic Encryption Libraries HElib, SEAL and FV-NFLlib. In SecITC 2018, 2018.
- <span id="page-17-3"></span>[49] P. Mohassel and P. Rindal. ABY<sup>3</sup>: A Mixed Protocol Framework for Machine Learning. In *ACM CCS*, 2018.
- <span id="page-17-11"></span>[50] S. Myers, M. Sergi, and A. Shelat. Threshold Fully Homomorphic Encryption and Secure Computation. IACR ePrint 2011/454, 2011.
- <span id="page-17-7"></span>[51] S. Narayanan, T. Aishwarya, A. Agrawal, A. Patra, A. Choudhary, and P. Rangan. Multi party distributed private matching, set disjointness and cardinality of set intersection with information theoretic security. In CANS, 2009.
- <span id="page-17-20"></span>[52] Netem. netem, 2019. https://wiki.linuxfoundation.org/networking/ netem.
- <span id="page-17-10"></span>[53] J.B. Nielsen and C. Orlandi. LEGO for Two-Party Secure Computation. In TCC, 2009.
- <span id="page-17-27"></span>[54] B. Pinkas, T. Schneider, G. Segev, and M. Zohner. Phasing: Private Set Intersection Using Permutation-based Hashing. In *USENIX Security*, 2015.
- <span id="page-17-15"></span>[55] B. Pinkas, T. Schneider, C. Weinert, and U. Wieder. Efficient Circuit-Based PSI via Cuckoo Hashing. In EUROCRYPT, 2018.
- <span id="page-17-17"></span>[56] B. Pinkas, T. Schneider, and M. Zohner. Scalable Private Set Intersection Based on OT Extension. ACM Trans. Priv. Secur., 21(2), 2018.
- <span id="page-17-16"></span>[57] B. Pinkas, T. Schneider, O. Tkachenko, and A. Yanai. Efficient Circuit-Based PSI with Linear Communication. In *EUROCRYPT*, 2019.
- <span id="page-17-18"></span>M. Raab and A. Steger. "Balls into Bins" - A Simple and Tight Analysis. In RANDOM, [58] 1998.
- <span id="page-17-23"></span>[59] M.S. Riazi, C. Weinert, O. Tkachenko, E.M. Songhori, T. Schneider, and F. Koushanfar. Chameleon: A Hybrid Secure Computation Framework for Machine Learning Applications. In ACM AsiaCCS, 2018.
- <span id="page-17-19"></span>[60] P. Rindal and M. Rosulek. Malicious-Secure Private Set Intersection via Dual Execution. In *ACM CCS*, 2017.
- <span id="page-17-24"></span>[61] D. Rotaru and T. Wood. MArBled Circuits: Mixing Arithmetic and Boolean Circuits with Active Security. In *INDOCRYPT*, 2019.

{18}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-18-3"></span>[62] M. Strand. A Verifiable Shuffle for the GSW Cryptosystem. In *VOTING*, 2018.
- <span id="page-18-8"></span>[63] M. Varia, S. Yakoubov, and Y. Yang. HEtest: A Homomorphic Encryption Testing Framework. In *WAHC*, 2015.
- <span id="page-18-6"></span>[64] Verizon. IP Latency Statistics, 2020. https://enterprise.verizon.com/terms/latency/.
- <span id="page-18-2"></span>[65] X. Wang, S. Ranellucci, and J. Katz. Authenticated Garbling and Efficient Maliciously Secure Two-Party Computation. In *ACM CCS*, 2017.
- <span id="page-18-7"></span>[66] X. Wang, S. Ranellucci, and J. Katz. Global-Scale Secure Multiparty Computation. In *ACM CCS*, 2017.
- <span id="page-18-5"></span>[67] Q. Ye, H. Wang, J. Pieprzyk, and X.-M. Zhang. Efficient Disjointness Tests for Private Datasets. In *ACISP*, 2008.
- <span id="page-18-0"></span>[68] M. Yung. From Mental Poker to Core Business: Why and How to Deploy Secure Computation Protocols? In *ACM CCS*, 2015.

## <span id="page-18-4"></span>**A Supporting Larger Plaintext Spaces**

Our presentation above describes arithmetic sub-circuits  $C_i^{\text{Arith}}$  operating over single bits. That is, each ciphertext encrypts a single bit and homomorphic operations are over bits. This can be inefficient as parties often want to compute on larger integers, e.g., 32 Bit integers. Homomorphic encryption schemes anyway operate over large plaintext spaces, where addition of a large, multiple bit integer is a single homomorphic operation. A large plaintext space also allows for SIMD techniques.

To improve performance, we can extend conversion from operating over GF(2) plaintexts to operate over plaintexts of arbitrary fields GF(q) by instituting the following two modifications. In our conversions, ZK Protocols, and ZK proofs, we replace using XORs to share a single bit or combine two shares to a bit by additions and subtractions over GF(q). Random bits serving as a share for a party become random elements of GF(q). Second, n single bit encryptions  $c_i = \operatorname{Enc}(b_i)$  output by our 2PC to FHE conversion are combined to a single n bit encrypted integer by each party computing  $\sum_{i=0}^{n-1} 2^i \cdot c_{i+1}$ .

### <span id="page-18-1"></span>B $d \geq 2$ Parties

Secure multi-party computation can be constructed from secure two-party computations in various ways. One standard way is a star topology as we will present in our example in Section 4. We emphasize, however, that our conversions are not limited to star topologies.

The main idea is that each party  $P_i$  engages in secure two-party computation with a central party  $P_1$  to compute some functionality. Such a centralized approach works for certain functionalities, e.g., equality of inputs, as equality is symmetric and transitive. If  $P_i$ 's input is equal to  $P_1$ 's and  $P_j$ 's input is equal to  $P_1$ 's, then  $P_i$ 's input is also equal to  $P_j$ 's. Hence, computation of the joint result using homomorphic encryption can leverage this relation.

This approach does not apply to other functionalities, e.g., larger-than comparison. If  $P_i$ 's input is larger than  $P_1$ 's, and  $P_j$ 's input is larger than  $P_1$ 's, then we cannot imply any larger-than relation between  $P_i$ 's and  $P_j$ 's input. Consequently, in this case, the alternative to maintain constant-round complexity is to engage all parties in pair-wise comparisons. This has been previously considered, e.g., in the context of sealed-bid auctions [9]. However, the result of each pairwise comparison is leaked in previous work,

{19}------------------------------------------------

reducing security to a level comparable with order-preserving encryption. In contrast, constructions in this paper would enable computing the auction result, e.g., the largest input, using homomorphic encryption with constant round complexity.

In summary, there exist several practically relevant protocols with arithmetic relations between inputs which can be decomposed into an initial two-party phase followed by a combination phase of the inputs. We use secure two-party protocols during the first phase to achieve efficient implementations in a constant number of (communication) rounds. Similarly, to evaluate low multiplicative depth sub-circuits, we use homomorphic encryption efficiently. Our ZK protocols ensure that the conversion is secure against malicious adversaries.

## <span id="page-19-0"></span>C Proof of Theorem [1](#page-9-1)

We emphasize that we only provide a proof-sketch that, however, should convince an expert reader about the correctness of our theorems and the security of our protocols. Before presenting this proof sketch of our main Theorem [1,](#page-9-1) we briefly recall completeness, zero-knowledge, and soundness definitions.

Let P ∈ {P1, P2} be the prover and V ∈ {P1, P2} be the verifier in a ZKP. Let w ∈ R<sup>C</sup> be a witness for the correct execution of a conversion which we denote as relation R<sup>C</sup> . Let ⟨P(w), V ⟩ be the execution of a ZKP protocol.

*Completeness*: An honest verifier accepts the proof, if the prover provides consistent input, that is:

$$w \in R_C \Longrightarrow \langle P(w), V \rangle \land Pr[V = \mathsf{accept}] = 1$$

*Zero-Knowledge*: The verifier learns nothing about the prover's witness except that it satisfies the proof, i.e., there exists a simulator Sim<sup>P</sup> such that:

$$\langle P(w), V \rangle \stackrel{c}{=} \langle \mathsf{Sim}_P, V \rangle$$

*Soundness*: An honest verifier rejects the proof with overwhelming probability in the security parameter λ, if the prover's secret input is not a witness for the proof, i.e., there exists an extractor Ext<sup>V</sup> such that:

$$V = \mathsf{accept} \Longrightarrow \langle P(w), \mathsf{Ext}_V \rangle \land Pr[\mathsf{Ext}_V = w] = 1 - \mathsf{negl}(\lambda)$$

*Proof (Theorem [1\)](#page-9-1).*

Completeness of ZK Protocols (1) to (3) follows immediately from their construction, so we focus on Zero-Knowledge and Soundness.

Zero-Knowledge To prove zero-knowledge, we construct simulators SimP<sup>1</sup> or SimP<sup>2</sup> in the hybrid model which do not know the witness of the individual ZK Protocols (ZKPs), create views for the adversary which are indistinguishable from the real protocol, and make the verifier accept the proofs. In the hybrid model, simulators can simulate any ZK sub-proofs invoked during the protocol.

First, observe that all messages from the prover to the verifier are semanticallysecure ciphertexts, random numbers or other zero-knowledge proofs.

In ZKP (1) and (2), the simulator Sim<sup>P</sup><sup>1</sup> , or Sim<sup>P</sup><sup>2</sup> (in ZKP (2)), randomly chooses inputs ι1,i (or ι2,i) and masking bits µi,j as their input into 2PC. The verifier inputs σi,j

{20}------------------------------------------------

to the 2PC. After the 2PC, the simulator either receives verification bits  $t_{i,j}$  (ZKP (1)) or outputs random verification bits (ZKP (2)).

In the last step, we make use of the hybrid model. The simulator invokes the simulator of the ZKP for correct decryption using those (random) verification bits and the committed (random) input and masking ciphertexts, simulating a consistent execution of the ZKP.

In ZKP (3), the simulator  $Sim_{P_1}$  does not have to output verification bits  $v_{i,\omega_i,j}$ , but the verification is done using ZK proofs Scalar<sub>i</sub> and Shuffle<sub>i</sub>. Hence, the simulator for ZK Protocol (3) chooses a random  $\omega_i$  and invokes the simulators for Scalar<sub>i</sub> and Shuffle<sub>i</sub>.

**Soundness** To prove soundness for ZKP (1) and (2), we construct extractors  $\operatorname{Ext}_{P_1}$  or  $\operatorname{Ext}_{P_2}$ . We construct an extractor  $\operatorname{Ext}_{P_2}$  only for ZKP (1), but stress that the extractor  $\operatorname{Ext}_{P_1}$  for (2) is equivalent. The extractor starts the ZK proof and lets the prover commit to their inputs via homomorphic ciphertexts  $c_{1,j}$  (for a known shared key). Then the extractor chooses challenge bits  $\sigma_{i,j}$  and sends them to the 2PC. The prover outputs verification bits  $t_{i,j}$ . The extractor rewinds the prover to just before they received the challenge bits for the 2PC. The extractor negates all challenge bits to  $\neg \sigma_{i,j}$ , sends them to the 2PC and continues the protocol. Let the prover's verification bits after rewinding be  $t'_{i,j}$ . We assume that the prover has consistent inputs and hence these inputs are extractable: the prover's inputs in ZKP (1) are  $t_{i,j} \oplus t'_{i,j}$ .

The soundness of ZKP (3) is a special case of authenticity of garbled circuits [6], and we do not need an extractor. Challenge bits  $v_{i,0,j}$  and  $v_{i,1,j}$  are input to the 2PC. Note that the soundness of the ZKP (1) ensures that the entire execution of the verifier is secure against malicious behaviour, including its conversion of the challenge bits from FHE to 2PC. The output depends on the output of the 2PC. Since the prover only evaluates the garbled circuit, it is bound to the correct or no output due to the authenticity property of garbled circuits. It can hence only produce one consistent set of output labels  $v_{i,\omega_i,j}$ .

This completes our security proof. Note that only the proof of ZKP (3) is recursive to the proof of ZKP (1), and hence all proofs are valid if ordered from (1) to (3).  $\Box$ 

### <span id="page-20-0"></span>**D** Replacing Hash-based Commitments

In compositions of multi-party protocols from two-party protocols, an important application of our conversions can be used which is of independent interest. In general, when there are multiple two-party protocols by one party within a composed protocol, this one party may need to commit to its input before all two-party protocols and prove that all two-party protocols use the same input by opening the commitment in the 2PC. The common technique to implement this is to use hash-based commitments and verify hashes during 2PC. This requires about 22000 AND gates for each 256 input bits using, for example, SHA2 [24]. Our construction below omits hash verification inside the circuit and can be used as an alternative.

**Details** We describe how this technique is applied to ZK Protocols (1) and (2), but stress that it is general and can be applied in other scenarios, too. More specifically, the costliest operation during garbled circuit 2PC evaluation in ZK Protocols (1) and (2) is

{21}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-21-0"></span>Table 2: Complexities for Multi-Party Maliciously-Secure PSD using different techniques. Table shows *only online* phases (if applicable). Table lists *only dominating* computation or communication costs, see text.

 $\lambda$ : statistical security parameter,  $\kappa$ : computational security parameter,  $\mathcal{I}$ : total number of comparisons ( $\mathcal{I} = d\ell n \log n$ ), d: number of parties, n: elements per party,  $\ell$ : input length,  $\mathcal{C}_{GF(2^{\ell+\lambda})*}$ : comp. cost for  $GF(2^{\ell+\lambda})$  multiplication, H: comp. cost for hash evaluation,  $|\mathsf{SYM}|$ : size of symmetric ciphertext of  $GF(2^{\ell+\lambda})$  element, |H|: size of a hash,  $|\mathsf{FHE}|$ : size of a FHE ciphertext,  $BC_x$ : secure broadcast of x bit,  $\mathcal{I}$ : total number of bit comparisons ( $\mathcal{I} = d\ell n \log n$ ).

For practical scenarios, we simplify:  $O(n\ell) \cdot BC_{\kappa} \subseteq O(\mathcal{I}) \cdot BC_{|\mathsf{FHE}|}, \ell d^3 \in O(d\mathcal{I}),$   $\frac{\lambda \mathcal{I}}{\log n} + dn\lambda^2 \in O(\mathcal{I}), \ O(I + nd\lambda \cdot (\ell + \lambda)) \cdot H \subseteq O(\mathcal{I}) \cdot \mathcal{C}_{\mathsf{FHE}*}, \ O(n \cdot (\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2)) \cdot |H| \subseteq O(\mathcal{I}) \cdot |\mathsf{FHE}|, \ O(nd(\lambda \ell + \lambda^2)) \cdot |\mathsf{FHE}| \subseteq O(\mathcal{I}) \cdot |\mathsf{FHE}|, \ O(\ell) \cdot BC_{|H|} \subseteq O(nd) \cdot BC_{|\mathsf{FHE}|}.$ 

|                         | Comp. / party                                               | Comm. / party                                                                                                           | Rounds                    |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| FHE                     | $O(\mathcal{I}) \cdot \mathcal{C}_{FHE*}$                   | $O(\ell n) \cdot BC_{ FHE }$                                                                                            | O(1)                      |
| Constant Round MPC [43] | $O(\mathcal{I})\cdot\mathcal{C}_{FHE*}$                     | $O(\mathcal{I}) \cdot BC_{ FHE }$                                                                                       | O(1)                      |
| SPDZ [18]               | $O(d\mathcal{I}) \cdot \mathcal{C}_{GF(2^{\ell+\lambda})*}$ | $ \left  \begin{array}{c} O(d\mathcal{I}) \cdot  SYM  + \\ O(n) \cdot BC_{ GF(2^{\ell+\lambda}) } \end{array} \right  $ | $O(\log d + \log \log n)$ |
| This paper              | $O(\mathcal{I})\cdot \mathcal{C}_{FHE*}$                    | $\begin{vmatrix} O(\mathcal{I}) \cdot  FHE  + O(n) \cdot \\ BC_{ FHE } \end{vmatrix}$                                   | O(1)                      |

verification of commitments  $Com_{i,j}$ . For hash-based commitments,  $\gamma^{(1)}$  and  $\gamma^{(2)}$  would need to comprise sub-circuits recomputing expensive hashes.

However with a white-box use of garbled circuits, verifying commitments is unnecessary. Consider, first, ZK Protocol (1): instead of re-computing commitments in  $\gamma^{(1)}$ , evaluator  $P_2$  simply retrieves wire labels  $L_{i,j}$  of their input wire  $\sigma_{i,j}$  from garbler  $P_1$ . During evaluation of  $\gamma^{(1)}$ ,  $P_1$  does not send the standard "translation-table" which opens the label of output wire  $t_{i,j}$  by mapping the label to a 0 or 1. Instead,  $P_1$  only sends a commitment to the table. After 2PC evaluation,  $P_2$  sends label  $L_{i,j}$ ,  $\sigma_{i,j}$ , and  $R_{i,j}$  to  $P_1$ ,  $P_1$  verifies  $Com_{i,j}$ , checks whether  $L_{i,j}$  is the right label, and then sends the translation table.

In case of ZK Protocol (2) the situation is more subtle.  $P_1$  needs to reveal both wire labels for  $\sigma_{i,j}=0$  and  $\sigma_{i,j}=1$  in order to prove integrity of its input. However,  $P_1$  can only do so after  $P_2$  has revealed output  $t_{i,j}$ , but before  $P_2$  has opened the ciphertexts. Hence, another half communication round is necessary where  $P_2$  sends  $t_{i,j}$  after evaluating the protocol. This order of operations is similar to the zero-knowledge proof technique using garbled circuits by Jawurek et al. [30], where the garbler opens the circuit after a commitment to the output by the evaluator. Note that our protocols secure the garbled circuit computation (in combination with conversion from and to FHE) whereas Jawurek et al. only construct a single ZKP using garbled circuits.

{22}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-22-0"></span>E Complexity Analysis

As there is no dedicated protocol for multi-party maliciously-secure PSD, we compare complexities with those for evaluating F using general MPC techniques SPDZ [\[18\]](#page-16-14), constant-round MPC [\[43\]](#page-17-1), and (semi-honest) FHE. Table [2](#page-21-0) shows results of "online" phases only (SPDZ, constant-round MPC, our techniques). We stress that in contrast to our more detailed explanations below, Table [2](#page-21-0) presents only a summary, focussing on those costs which dominate computation and communication. For example for the FHE-based approach, we silently ignore the n FHE additions in the outer part of F, as O(dℓn log n) FHE multiplications will dominate total computation time. As mentioned above, we set m ∈ O( n log n ) and β ∈ O(log n). To implement secure broadcast, we use the standard echo broadcast [\[18,](#page-16-14) [25,](#page-16-20) [43,](#page-17-1) [44\]](#page-17-2) which has message complexity O(d 2 ).

(Semi-Honest) FHE Let CFHE<sup>∗</sup> be the computational complexity for a FHE multiplication and CFHE<sup>+</sup> the computational complexity for a FHE addition. A standard FHE implementation arithmetizes F's inner part fi,j,k. There, two ℓ Bit elements are compared with O(ℓ) multiplications (implementing XNORs and ANDs), followed by log n multiplications to realize W . Finally, d multiplications are necessary for Q . In total, FHE requires O(dℓn log n) · CFHE<sup>∗</sup> homomorphic multiplications with a multiplicative circuit depth of log ℓ + log log n + log d + 1. Even for reasonable values ℓ = 32, d = 20, n = 128, the multiplicative depth is already 14 which leads to huge runtimes in practice [\[48\]](#page-17-29). Note that homomorphic additions also increase ciphertext noise. While noise increased by additions is roughly one order of magnitude less than with multiplications [\[63\]](#page-18-8), and we do not count additions in our comparison, we stress that additive noise requires FHE parameter selection to result in even slower computations.

Communication complexity with FHE comprises securely broadcasting all (m·β) ∈ O(n) input elements encrypted bit by bit and partial decryptions for the final ℓ Bit output. Such a standard FHE evaluation of F leads to a constant round complexity.

Constant-Round MPC An implementation based on recent constant-round MPC protocols [\[33,](#page-17-0) [43,](#page-17-1) [44\]](#page-17-2) replaces F's arithmetic operators with Boolean operators, i.e., the Q by V and each P by W . The result is a circuit with dnℓ input wires, nℓ per party, one output wire, and dℓn log n gates. This circuit is then evaluated in an online phase having the following complexities: (I) For each input wire of each party P<sup>i</sup> , P<sup>i</sup> broadcasts one PRG seed of length κ (security parameter), and all parties perform a distributed decryption, also broadcasting partial decryptions. (II) For each gate, all parties perform a distributed decryption. Together, per party, this requires a total of O(dℓn log n) broadcasts of size comparable to a FHE ciphertext and O(nℓ) broadcasts of PRG seeds. Lindell et al. [\[43\]](#page-17-1) require 9 rounds and a FHE multiplicative depth of 3.

SPDZ Comparing two ℓ Bit integers is implemented in SPDZ [\[18\]](#page-16-14) by Catrina and de Hoogh [\[14\]](#page-16-29)'s arithmetization. For statistical security parameter λ, each comparison requires d · ℓ multiplications in GF(2<sup>ℓ</sup>+<sup>λ</sup> ) per party, in a constant number of rounds. The following W requires log n and the Q requires d multiplications. Opening the final output requires O(ℓ · d 3 ) multiplications per party. So in total, F's evaluation requires O(ndlog ndℓ + ℓd<sup>3</sup> ) = O(d 2 ℓn log n + ℓd<sup>3</sup> ) multiplications per party in O(log d+log log n) rounds. This is also the amount of shares which have to be securely

{23}------------------------------------------------

|                                         | #Input wires $(P_1, P_2)$                   | #Output wires              | #Gates                                      |
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| $f_{i,j,k}$                             | $\ell, \ell \log n$                         | 1                          | $\ell \log n$                               |
| $\gamma_{Share}'$                       | +1, +0                                      | +0                         | +1                                          |
| $\gamma_{Share'}(1)$                    | $+\lambda\ell, +\lambda\ell$                | $+\lambda\ell$ (1 real)    | $+\lambda\ell$                              |
| $(\gamma_{Share}'(1))(3)$               | $+\lambda, +0$                              | $+\lambda$ (1 real)        | $+\lambda$                                  |
| $\frac{((\gamma_{Share}'(1))}{(3))(1)}$ | $+\lambda^2, +\lambda^2$                    | $+\lambda^2$ (1 real)      | $+\lambda^2$                                |
| Total                                   | $\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2$ | $\lambda \ell + \lambda^2$ | $\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2$ |

<span id="page-23-0"></span>Table 3: Asymptotic circuit complexity. In our notation, "+x" for wires or gates means that O(x) wires or gates are added by running a particular circuit.

exchanged between two parties. Initial sharing of O(n) elements of each party requires O(n) secure broadcasts.

Our Mixed-Technique Let  $\mathcal{C}_{\mathsf{2PC}}$  denote the computational complexity for computing the 2PC sub-protocol for inner circuits  $f_{i,j,k}$  of F. For  $P_1$ , computational complexity for evaluating F is  $O(nd) \cdot \mathcal{C}_{\mathsf{2PC}}$  plus  $O(nd) \cdot \mathcal{C}_{\mathsf{FHE}*}$  plus  $O(n) \cdot \mathcal{C}_{\mathsf{FHE}+}$ .  $m \in O(\frac{n}{\log n})$  and  $\beta \in O(\log n)$ , So, the computational complexity is in  $O(n \cdot (\mathcal{C}_{\mathsf{FHE}+} + d \cdot (\mathcal{C}_{\mathsf{2PC}} + \mathcal{C}_{\mathsf{FHE}*}))$ .

Circuit complexity Comparison circuit  $f_{i,j,k}$  has  $O(\ell)$  input wires for  $P_1$ ,  $O(\ell \log n)$  for  $P_2$ , and one output wire (for  $P_2$ ). Its number of gates is  $O(\ell \log n)$ , as two  $\ell$  bit strings can be compared with  $O(\ell)$  gates.

For our conversion from 2PC to FHE, we run  $\gamma_{\mathsf{Share}}'$  of  $f_{i,j,k}$ , which adds additional complexity, see also Table 3. Specifically, running  $\gamma_{\mathsf{Share}}'$  adds O(1) input wires for  $P_1$ , no additional input wire to  $P_2$ , no additional output wire, and O(1) additional gates (one XOR).

Running ZK Protocol (1) on  $\gamma_{\text{Share}}'$  leads to circuit  $\gamma_{\text{Share}}'(1)$ . This circuit increases the number of input wires for  $P_1$  by  $\lambda$  wires (the  $\mu_{i,j}$ ) for each of  $P_1$ 's  $\ell$  input wires. It also increases  $P_2$ 's input wires by  $\lambda\ell$  input wires (choice bits  $\sigma_{i,j}$ ). The number of output wires is increased by  $\lambda\ell$  ( $\mu_{i,j}$  or  $\mu_{i,j} \oplus \iota_{i,j}$ ), and the number of gates, too (for-loop). Note that all but one output wire are used for ZK proofs, and one single wire carries the actual output from the previous circuit. ZK Protocol (3) is run, leading to ( $\gamma_{\text{Share}}'(1)$ )(3). This circuit adds  $\lambda$  input wires for  $P_1$  (the v),  $\lambda$  output wires (all but one used for ZK proofs), and  $\lambda$  gates. Finally, ZK Protocol (1) is run, resulting in (( $\gamma_{\text{Share}}'(1)$ )(3))(1). This circuit adds  $2\lambda^2$  input wires for  $P_1$ , i.e.,  $\lambda$  wires ( $\mu_{i,j}$ ) for each of the  $2\lambda$  additional input wires from previous circuit ( $\gamma_{\text{Share}}'(1)$ )(3). Input for  $P_2$  is also increased by  $2\lambda^2$  wires ( $\lambda$  wires for the  $\sigma_{i,j}$  for each of  $P_1$ 's additional input). Consequently, output wires are increased by  $2\lambda^2$  ( $\mu_{i,j}$  or  $\mu_{i,j} \oplus \iota_{i,j}$ ), and the number of gates, too.

In total, our conversion leads to a circuit with  $O(\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2)$  input wires,  $O(\lambda \ell + \lambda^2)$  output wires, and  $O(\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2)$  gates.

We use the scheme by Wang et al. [65] as 2PC building block which implements evaluation of each circuit with  $O(\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2)$  calls to a cryptographic hash func-

{24}------------------------------------------------

tion. There are d parties and  $O(\frac{n}{\log n})$  hash table buckets of  $O(\log n)$  entries, leading to a total of  $O(n \cdot (\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2))$  hashes per party.

**FHE complexity** 2PC to FHE conversion also involves additional FHE operations. That is, the part before and after  $f_{i,j,k}$ 's 2PC in Figure 6 requires 1 FHE encryption and 1 FHE multiplication. We then run ZK Protocol (1) which adds  $\lambda\ell$  FHE encryptions and multiplications. Note that the depth of these multiplications is only 1. We then run ZK Protocol (3) which adds  $\lambda$  FHE encryptions, 1 ZK proof Scalar, 1 ZK proof Shuffle, and 1 decryption. Multiplicative depth remains 1. Finally, we run ZK Protocol (1) again, adding  $\lambda^2$  FHE encryptions and multiplications, each of depth 1.

**Number of rounds** Recall that the maliciously secure 2PC protocol by Wang et al. requires 3 rounds (steps 5 and 6 in Figure 2 in [65]) during online evaluation. The first two rounds comprise exchanging shares of masking bits and MACs, and the third round includes  $P_i$  performing offline evaluation of the circuit and generating output. Note that  $P_1$  runs 2PC with all other parties at the same time in parallel. To implement secure broadcast, we use the simple echo broadcast [18, 25, 44]. Similar to previous work [43], we consider this broadcast to run in one round.

We now show how we divide our protocol into rounds, integrating 2PC and secure broadcasts. In the first two rounds of our protocol, we run the first two rounds of 2PC. As part of these two rounds,  $P_1$  also broadcasts commitments to all their input bits and  $\operatorname{Enc}(r_1)$  which is their share of r. In parallel,  $P_1$  sends all  $\operatorname{Enc}(s)$  from 2PC to FHE conversion, all  $\Gamma$  for ZK Protocol (3), and the  $m = \operatorname{Enc}(\mu)$  of ZK Protocol (1) to each  $P_i$ , respectively, in parallel. Meanwhile, each  $P_i$  broadcasts their share  $\operatorname{Enc}(r_i)$  and sends commitments  $\operatorname{Com}(\sigma)$  for ZK Protocol (1) to  $P_1$ .

During our third round,  $P_i$  finishes the third round of 2PC. As soon as each  $P_i$  is done with 2PC evaluation, they open commitments to  $\sigma$ s for  $P_1$  and also send their  $\Gamma$ s,  $\Delta$ s,  $\Delta'$ s, and ZK proofs.

In the fourth round, Party  $P_1$  sends either  $\mu$  or  $\mu \oplus \iota$  of ZK Protocol (1) to  $P_i$ . Both parties broadcast a request to decrypt  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(0)}$  and  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(1)}$  such that  $P_1$  learns the decrypted values. In parallel,  $P_i$  also broadcasts  $c'_i$  together with a ZK proof that this encrypts a bit.

In the fifth round, parties send their contributions to decrypt  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(0)}$  and  $\Delta'_{i,\pi(1)}$  to  $P_1$  (together with a proof of correct decryption), and  $P_1$  broadcasts  $c_i$  together with a proof that  $c_i$  encrypts a bit.

In the sixth and last round, all parties homomorphically compute  $c_i''$ , evaluate the arithmetic part of F and broadcast partial decryptions of their outputs together with a ZK proof of correct (partial) decryption.

Communication complexity Wang et al.'s 2PC communication complexity is dominated by O(1) hashes for each input and output wire. Thus, for evaluation of a single  $f_{i,j,k}$  including 2PC to FHE conversion, we need to transmit  $O(\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2)$  hash values. For all comparisons, we therefore send  $O(n \cdot (\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2))$  hash values per party for the 2PC part.

For conversion, we first consider only communication between  $P_1$  and  $P_i$ . More specifically,  $P_1$  begins and sends 1 FHE encryption (Enc( $s_1$ )). For ZK Protocol (1),  $P_1$  sends  $O(\lambda \ell)$  ciphertexts Enc(m) to  $P_i$  and opens ciphertexts by sending as many

{25}------------------------------------------------

random coins. Party  $P_i$  sends  $O(\lambda \ell)$  hashes (commitments). For ZK Protocol (3),  $P_1$  sends  $O(\lambda)$  ciphertexts ( $\Gamma$ s),  $P_2$  also sends  $O(\lambda)$  ciphertexts (their  $\Gamma$ s) as well as  $\Delta$ 's and ZK proofs. Party  $P_i$  also sends 2 partial decryptions. For the last ZK Protocol (1),  $P_1$  sends  $O(\lambda^2)$  ciphertexts (Enc(m)) and later opens with  $O(\lambda^2)$  random coins, and  $P_i$  sends  $O(\lambda^2)$  (hash) commitments.

In total, we send  $O(n \cdot (\ell \cdot (\log n + \lambda) + \lambda^2))$  hashes per party. Assuming the size of a random coin and a ZK Proof to be like the size of a FHE ciphertext (up to constant factors), then  $P_1$  sends  $O(nd(\lambda \ell + \lambda^2))$  FHE ciphertexts. All other parties send significantly less  $(O(n\lambda))$  ciphertexts.