

{0}------------------------------------------------

# The Boomerang Attacks on BLAKE and BLAKE2

### Yonglin Hao

Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua Universtiy, Beijing 100084, China haoyl12@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn

Abstract. In this paper, we study the security margins of hash functions BLAKE and BLAKE2 against the boomerang attack. We launch boomerang attacks on all four members of BLAKE and BLAKE2, and compare their complexities. We propose 8.5-round boomerang attacks on both BLAKE-512 and BLAKE2b with complexities 2<sup>464</sup> and 2<sup>474</sup> respectively. We also propose 8-round attacks on BLAKE-256 with complexity 2<sup>198</sup> and 7.5-round attacks on BLAKE2s with complexity 2<sup>184</sup>. We verify the correctness of our analysis by giving practical 6.5-round Type I boomerang quartets for each member of BLAKE and BLAKE2.

According to our analysis, some tweaks introduced by BLAKE2 have increased its resistance against boomerang attacks to a certain extent. But on the whole, BLAKE still has higher a secure margin than BLAKE2.

# 1 Introduction

Cryptographic hash functions (simply referred as hash functions) are playing a significant role in the modern cryptology. They are indispensable in achieving secure systems such as digital signatures, message authentication codes and so on. In the cryptanalysis of hash functions, one of the greatest breakthrough was made by Wang et al. in 2005 when they successfully launched collision attacks on widely used hash functions MD5 [\[1\]](#page-7-0) and SHA-1 [\[2\]](#page-7-1). After that, the analytic methods against hash functions have been greatly improved which threatens the security of existing hash functions. To cope with this situation, NIST proposed the transition from SHA-1 to SHA-2. Furthermore, NIST also launched the SHA-3 competition to develop a new hash standard. After years' analysis, five proposals entered the final round of SHA-3 and the one named Keccak became the new SHA-3 standard in 2012 [\[3\]](#page-7-2).

The BLAKE hash function [\[4\]](#page-7-3) was one of the five finalists of the SHA-3 competition [\[5\]](#page-7-4). Although it was not selected as the SHA-3 standard, along with the other finalists, BLAKE is assumed to be a very strong hash function with high security margin and very good performance in software.

BLAKE2 [\[6\]](#page-7-5) is a new family of hash functions based on BLAKE. According to [\[6\]](#page-7-5), the main objective of BLAKE2 is to provide a number of parameters for use in applications without the need of additional constructions and modes, and also to speed-up even further the hash function to a level of compression rate close to MD5.

Ever since its proposal, BLAKE has attracted a considerable amount of cryptanalysis, such as impossible differential attack [\[7\]](#page-7-6), differential attack[\[8\]](#page-7-7), collision, preimage [\[9\]](#page-7-8) etc. There is also a boomerang distinguisher on BLAKE-32 given by Biryukov et al. in [\[10\]](#page-7-9) but some incompatible problems were pointed out by Leurent in [\[11\]](#page-7-10). Despite of the incompatibilities, [\[10\]](#page-7-9) indicates that the boomerang method may have good efficiency in analyzing the BLAKE family. Recently, Bai et al. have given the first valid 7-round and 8-round boomerangs for BLAKE-256 [\[12\]](#page-7-11).

As to BLAKE2, Guo et al. [\[13\]](#page-7-12) have given a thorough security analysis of it. In their paper, they applied almost all the existing attacks on BLAKE to BLAKE2. According to their results, the tweaks introduced by BLAKE2, if analyzed separately, reduce the security of the version in some theoretical attacks. Some cryptanalysis methods manage to reach more rounds for BLAKE2 than BLAKE. BLAKE seems to have better resistance than BLAKE2 against various cryptanalysis methods. However, [\[13\]](#page-7-12) did not evaluate the security margin of the two hash function families under the boomerang method and this is what we are going to do in this paper.

The original boomerang attack was introduced by Wagner in 1999 [\[14\]](#page-7-13) as a tool for the cryptanalysis of block ciphers. It is an adaptive chosen plaintext and ciphertext attack utilizing differential cryptanalysis. 

{1}------------------------------------------------

Later, Kelsey et al. [15] developed the original version into a chosen plaintext attack called the amplified boomerang attack. Developments were also made by Biham et al. in [16] and [17].

During the past few years, the idea of the boomerang attack has been applied to many hash functions. Biryukov et al. [10] and Lamberger et al. [18] independently applied the boomerang attack to BLAKE-32 and SHA-256. The SHA-256 result was later improved by Biryukov et al. in [19]. Ever after, we saw the boomerang results on many hash functions such as SIME-512 [20], HAVAL [21], RIPEMD-128/160 [22], HAS-160 [21], Skein-256/512 [23,24], SM3 [25,26] and BLAKE-256 [12]. The boomerang attack has become a common tool for analyzing various hash functions.

Our contribution. We reevaluate the boomerang attack on BLAKE-256 in [12] and apply the method to the keyed permutations of all BLAKE and BLAKE2 members namely BLAKE-256, BLAKE-512, BLAKE2s and BLAKE2b. We construct boomerang distinguishers for 8.5-round keyed permutation of BLAKE-512 and BLAKE2b (both from round 2.5 to 11). The complexity for attacking BLAKE-512 is 2<sup>464</sup> and that for BLAKE2b is 2<sup>474</sup>. We also present 7.5-round attack on BLAKE2s (round 2.5 to 10) with complexity 2<sup>184</sup>. Besides, we lower the complexity of the 8-round BLAKE-256 result in [12] from 2<sup>200</sup> to 2<sup>198</sup> with slight modification of the differential characteristic. We present our boomerang results along with previous ones in Table 1. As can be seen, some tweaks introduced by BLAKE2 have surprisingly increased its resistance against boomerang attacks to a certain extent. But, since BLAKE has more rounds, the secure margin of BLAKE is still higher than that of BLAKE2.

**Table 1.** All existing boomerang results on BLAKE and BLAKE2.

<span id="page-1-0"></span>

| Hash function | Target | Rounds | Time               | Source     |
|---------------|--------|--------|--------------------|------------|
|               | CF     | 6      | $2^{102}$          |            |
|               | CF     | 6.5*   | $2^{184}$          |            |
|               | CF     | 7*     | $2^{232}$          |            |
|               | KP     | 6      | $2^{11.75}$        | [10]       |
| BLAKE-256     | KP     | 7*     | $2^{122}$          | [+0]       |
|               | KP     | 8*     | $2^{242}$          |            |
|               | KP     | 7      | $2^{37}**$         | [10]       |
|               | KP     | 8      | $2^{200}$          | [12]       |
|               | KP     | 8      | $2^{198}$          | This paper |
| BLAKE2s       | KP     | 7.5    | $\mathbf{2^{184}}$ | This paper |
| BLAKE-512     | KP     | 8.5    | $2^{464}$          | This paper |
| BLAKE2b       | KP     | 8.5    | $2^{474}$          | This paper |

**KP**: Keyed Permutation

CF: Compression Function

Organization of the Paper. In Section 2, we briefly introduce the round functions of BLAKE and BLAKE2, and provide the overview of the boomerang attack. Section 3 describes the way that we deduce the differential characteristics and the process of building the boomerang distinguishers. Finally, we conclude our paper in Section 4.

### <span id="page-1-1"></span>2 Preliminary

In the first part of this section, we make a brief introduction of the two families of hash functions, BLAKE and BLAKE2. Since our boomerang analysis mainly focus on the keyed permutation of BLAKE and BLAKE2, which excludes the Initialization and Finalization procedures, we only introduce the round functions in this section. We refer the readers to [4] and [6] for information about initialization and finalization phases. We also give some notations that are used through this paper.

<sup>\*:</sup> there are some incompatible problems in their attacks

<sup>\*\*:</sup> this is the complexity for the Type III boomerang while others are of Type I.

{2}------------------------------------------------

In the second part of this section, we review the procedure of the boomerang attack on hash functions and give some definitions that we use in the description of our attacks.

### 2.1 The Round Functions of BLAKE and BLAKE2

BLAKE and BLAKE2 share many similarities. As the successor of BLAKE, BLAKE2 has a 32-bit version (BLAKE2s) and a 64-bit version (BLAKE2b), corresponding to BLAKE-256 and BLAKE-512 of BLAKE respectively. Both BLAKE and BLAKE2 process 16-word message blocks. However, differences can be witnessed at every level including internal permutation, compression function, and hash function construction. Some notations have to be introduced first:

- ← variable assignment;
- + modular 2<sup>32</sup> or 2<sup>64</sup> addition (according to the word length);
- − modular 2<sup>32</sup> or 2<sup>64</sup> subtraction (according to the word length);
- ⊕ bitwise exclusive or;
- ≪ n cyclic shift n bits towards the most significant bit;
- ≫ n cyclic shift n bits towards the least significant bit;
- ∧ bitwise AND operation for words.

The Round functions of both BLAKE and BLAKE2 process a state of 16 64-bit or 32-bit words represented by a 4 × 4 matrix as follows:

$$V = \begin{pmatrix} v_0 & v_1 & v_2 & v_3 \\ v_4 & v_5 & v_6 & v_7 \\ v_8 & v_9 & v_{10} & v_{11} \\ v_{12} & v_{13} & v_{14} & v_{15} \end{pmatrix}.$$

In the remainder of this paper, we denote the 16-word intermediate state by the capital letters such as V, T V and M for message block. Single 64-bit or 32-bit words are denoted by small letters such as v, tv and m for message words. We also refer to the i-th bit of a word v (i = 0, · · · 31 or 63 from the least significant to the most significant) as v[i].

Once the state V is initialized, V is processed by several rounds (10, 12, 14, 16 for BLAKE2s, BLAKE2b, BLAKE-256, BLAKE512 respectively) of G functions, which means computing

$$G_0(v_0, v_4, v_8, v_{12}), G_1(v_1, v_5, v_9, v_{13}), G_2(v_2, v_6, v_{10}, v_{14}), G_3(v_3, v_7, v_{11}, v_{15})$$
  
 $G_4(v_0, v_5, v_{10}, v_{15}), G_5(v_1, v_6, v_{11}, v_{12}), G_6(v_2, v_7, v_8, v_{13}), G_7(v_3, v_4, v_9, v_{14})$ 

where Gi(a, b, c, d), i = 0, · · · , 7 differ among BLAKE2s, BLAKE2b, BLAKE-256, BLAKE512 and are all listed in Table [2.](#page-2-0) The σ<sup>r</sup> in Step 1 and 5 of the G<sup>i</sup> function in Table [2](#page-2-0) belongs to the set of permutations as defined in Table [3.](#page-3-0) At round r > 9, the permutation used is σ<sup>r</sup> mod 10 (for example, if r = 11, the permutation σ11 mod 10 = σ<sup>1</sup> is used).

<span id="page-2-0"></span>

| Table 2. The Gi<br>Functions of BLAKE-256, BLAKE2s, BLAKE-512, BLAKE2b |  |  |  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|--|--|--|
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|--|--|--|

| Step | BLAKE-256                            | BLAKE2s                          | BLAKE-512                            | BLAKE2b                          |
|------|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| 1    | a = a + b + (mσr(2i)<br>⊕ cσr(2i+1)) | a = a + b + mσr(2i)              | a = a + b + (mσr(2i)<br>⊕ cσr(2i+1)) | a = a + b + mσr(2i)              |
| 2    | d = (d ⊕ a) ≫<br>16                  | d = (d ⊕ a) ≫<br>16              | d = (d ⊕ a) ≫<br>32                  | d = (d ⊕ a) ≫<br>32              |
| 3    | c = c + d                            | c = c + d                        | c = c + d                            | c = c + d                        |
| 4    | b = (b ⊕ c) ≫<br>12                  | b = (b ⊕ c) ≫<br>12              | b = (b ⊕ c) ≫<br>25                  | b = (b ⊕ c) ≫<br>24              |
| 5    | a = a + b + (mσr(2i+1)               | ⊕ cσr(2i)) a = a + b + mσr(2i+1) | a = a + b + (mσr(2i+1)               | ⊕ cσr(2i)) a = a + b + mσr(2i+1) |
| 6    | d = (d ⊕ a) ≫<br>8                   | d = (d ⊕ a) ≫<br>8               | d = (d ⊕ a) ≫<br>16                  | d = (d ⊕ a) ≫<br>16              |
| 7    | c = c + d                            | c = c + d                        | c = c + d                            | c = c + d                        |
| 8    | b = (b ⊕ c) ≫<br>7                   | b = (b ⊕ c) ≫<br>7               | b = (b ⊕ c) ≫<br>11                  | b = (b ⊕ c) ≫<br>63              |

Since we need detailed analysis of the intermediate states, we further breakdown the round functions. We denote the state after r rounds of iterations by V r (r = 0, 1, · · ·). Then, T V <sup>r</sup> is acquired after the first 4 

{3}------------------------------------------------

steps of  $G_{0,\dots,3}$  and  $V^{r+0.5}$  is computed after  $G_{0,\dots,3}$  are completed. Similarly, we can compute  $TV^{r+0.5}$  from  $V^{r+0.5}$  by applying steps 1,2,3,4 of  $G_{4,\dots,7}$  and further compute  $V^{r+1}$  by finishing  $G_{4,\dots,7}$ . This representation is illustrated as (1) and (2).

<span id="page-3-1"></span>
$$G_{0,\cdots,3}: V^r \xrightarrow{\text{Steps } 1,\cdots,4} TV^r \xrightarrow{\text{Steps } 5,\cdots,8} V^{r+0.5}$$
 (1)

$$G_{4,\cdots,7}: V^{r+0.5} \xrightarrow{\text{Steps } 1,\cdots,4} TV^{r+0.5} \xrightarrow{\text{Steps } 5,\cdots,8} V^{r+1}$$
 (2)

In this way, we can refer to any intermediate state word of any round easily.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Table 3.** The definition of  $\sigma_r$  where  $r = 0, \dots, 9$ .

| $\overline{\sigma_0}$ | 0  | 1  | 2  | 3  | 4  | 5  | 6  | 7  | 8  | 9  | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 |
|-----------------------|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|
| $\sigma_1$            | 14 | 10 | 4  | 8  | 9  | 15 | 13 | 6  | 1  | 12 | 0  | 2  | 11 | 7  | 5  | 3  |
| $\sigma_2$            | 11 | 8  | 12 | 0  | 5  | 2  | 15 | 13 | 10 | 14 | 3  | 6  | 7  | 1  | 9  | 4  |
| $\sigma_3$            | 7  | 9  | 3  | 1  | 13 | 12 | 11 | 14 | 2  | 6  | 5  | 10 | 4  | 0  | 15 | 8  |
| $\sigma_4$            | 9  | 0  | 5  | 7  | 2  | 4  | 10 | 15 | 14 | 1  | 11 | 12 | 6  | 8  | 3  | 13 |
| $\sigma_5$            | 2  | 12 | 6  | 10 | 0  | 11 | 8  | 3  | 4  | 13 | 7  | 5  | 15 | 14 | 1  | 9  |
| $\sigma_6$            | 12 | 5  | 1  | 15 | 14 | 13 | 4  | 10 | 0  | 7  | 6  | 3  | 9  | 2  | 8  | 11 |
|                       | l  |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    | 6  |    |    |
| $\sigma_8$            | 6  | 15 | 14 | 9  | 11 | 3  | 0  | 8  | 12 | 2  | 13 | 7  | 1  | 4  | 10 | 5  |
| $\sigma_9$            | 10 | 2  | 8  | 4  | 7  | 6  | 1  | 5  | 15 | 11 | 9  | 14 | 3  | 12 | 13 | 0  |

#### 2.2 The Boomerang Attack

About the boomerang attack on hash functions, we mainly review the known-related-key boomerang method given in [19]. We consider the compression function, denoted by CF, as CF(M,K) = E(M,K) + M and that it can be decomposed into two sub-functions as  $CF = CF_1 \circ CF_0$ . In this way, we can start from the middle steps since M and the key K can be chosen randomly [19,23]. Then we have a backward (top) differential characteristic  $(\beta, \beta_k) \to \alpha$  with probability p for  $CF_0^{-1}$ , and a forward (bottom) differential characteristic  $(\gamma, \gamma_k) \to \delta$  with probability q for  $CF_1$ . Finally, we can launch the known-related-key boomerang attack with these two differential characteristics as follows:

- 1. Choose randomly a intermediate state  $(X_1, K_1)$  and compute  $(X_i, K_i)$ , i = 2, 3, 4 by  $X_3 = X_1 \oplus \beta$ ,  $X_2 = X_1 \oplus \gamma$ ,  $X_4 = X_3 \oplus \gamma$ , and  $X_3 = X_1 \oplus \beta_k$ ,  $X_2 = X_1 \oplus \gamma_k$ ,  $X_4 = X_3 \oplus \gamma_k$ .
- 2. Compute backward from  $(X_i, K_i)$  and obtain  $P_i$  by  $P_i = CF_0^{-1}(X_i, K_i)$  (i = 1, 2, 3, 4).
- 3. Compute forward from  $(X_i, K_i)$  and obtain  $C_i$  by  $C_i = CF_1(X_i, K_i)$  (i = 1, 2, 3, 4).
- 4. Check whether  $P_1 \oplus P_3 = P_2 \oplus P_4 = \alpha$  and  $C_1 \oplus C_2 = C_3 \oplus C_4 = \delta$ .

It can be deduced that  $P_1 \oplus P_3 = P_2 \oplus P_4 = \alpha$  and  $C_1 \oplus C_2 = C_3 \oplus C_4 = \delta$  hold with probability at least  $p^2$  in the backward direction and  $q^2$  in the forward direction. Therefore, the attack succeeds with probability  $p^2q^2$  when assuming that the differential characteristics are independent.

According H. Yu et al. in [24], for a *n*-bit random permutation, there are three types of boomerang distinguishers:

- Type I: A quartet satisfies  $P_1 \oplus P_3 = P_2 \oplus P_4 = \alpha$  and  $C_1 \oplus C_2 = C_3 \oplus C_4 = \delta$  for fixed differences  $\alpha$  and  $\delta$ . In this case, the generic complexity is  $2^n$ .
- Type II: Only  $C_1 \oplus C_2 = C_3 \oplus C_4$  is satisfied (This property is also called zero-sum or second-order differential collision). In this case, the complexity for obtaining such a quartet is  $2^{n/3}$  [27].
- Type III: A quartet satisfied  $P_1 \oplus P_3 = P_2 \oplus P_4$  and  $C_1 \oplus C_2 = C_3 \oplus C_4$ . In this case, the best known still takes time  $2^{n/2}$ .

We only study the Type I boomerang distinguisher in this paper. Besides, the complexity  $2^{37}$  of the 7-round boomerang in [12] is actually the complexity for a Type III boomerang attack. The Type I complexity for the 7-round attack should be  $2^{2\times(1+4+16+1)}=2^{44}$  according to their methods.

{4}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-4-0"></span>3 The Boomerang Attacks on BLAKE and BLAKE2

In this section, we describe our boomerang attacks on BLAKE and BLAKE2. We only illustrate our strategies by comparing BLAKE-512 and BLAKE2b while those of BLAKE-256 and BLAKE2s can be deduced accordingly. Details are presented in Appendix A.

#### 3.1 Construction of Differential Characteristics

The very first step for the boomerang attack is constructing two differential characteristics with high probability. Since BLAKE and BLAKE2 are ARX hash functions (only use three simple operations namely **Modular Add** "+", **Rotation** " $\gg$ " and **XOR** " $\oplus$ "), we can use the XOR difference and deduce the difference linearly by considering the only nonlinear operation "+" as similar linear operation " $\oplus$ ".

The XOR difference in this paper is represented in two forms as follow:

- **Hex form:** such as  $\Delta v = 0$ x8003 indicates that bits v[0, 1, 15] of the word v are active (having non-zero XOR difference).
- Numeric form: such as  $\Delta v = (15, 1, 0)$  is equivalent to  $\Delta v = 0 \times 8003$  in hex form. Besides, if  $\Delta v = 0 \times 0$  in hex form, we denoted by  $\Delta v = \phi$  in numeric form.

The numeric form is mainly used to describe the differential characteristics since it has better outlook and can save some space. But in practice, we use the hex form to linearly deduce differential characteristics. For example, in the G function of BLAKE-512, we have

$$ta = a + b + (m_i \oplus c_j)$$

where  $c_j$  is constant. Suppose we have acquired the differences  $\Delta a$ ,  $\Delta b$  and  $\Delta m_i$ , we can deduce  $\Delta ta$  as

$$\Delta ta = \Delta a \oplus \Delta b \oplus \Delta m_i$$
.

Once we have determined the difference of the message block  $\Delta M$  and that of a intermediate state  $\Delta V^r$   $(r = 0, 0.5, 1, \cdots)$ , we can linearly extend the difference backward and forward.

We construct the two differential characteristics for the boomerang attack, where the top differential characteristic is from round 2.5 to 6.5 and bottom differential difference is from 6.5 to 11. We denote the difference of the top by  $\Delta^t V^r$  ( $r \in [2.5, 6.5]$ ) and that of the bottom by  $\Delta^b V^r$  ( $r \in [6.5, 11]$ ). Similarly, the difference for the message block is denoted as  $\Delta^t M$  in the top characteristic and  $\Delta^b M$  in the bottom characteristic. The main procedures for our characteristic construction can be summarized as follows:

**Import Difference:** We first import simple difference to message block  $\Delta^b M$  ( $\Delta^t M$ ) and the intermediate state  $\Delta^b V^8$  ( $\Delta^t V^4$ ).

**Linear Extension:** After we have determined  $\Delta^b M$  ( $\Delta^t M$ ) and  $\Delta^b V^8$  ( $\Delta^t V^4$ ), we extend the difference backward to round 6.5 (2.5) and forward to round 11 (6.5) to acquire the whole bottom (top) differential characteristic.

Construct the Bottom Differential Characteristic: In order to lower the complexity, we only import 1-bit differences to both  $\Delta^b M$  and  $\Delta^b V^8$ . The selection of active bits is based on **Observation 1** in [10].

We found that  $m_{11}$  of the 16 message words, namely  $m_0, \dots, m_{15}$ , appears at Step 1 in  $G_2$  at round 8 and also appears at Step 5 in  $G_4$  at round 9. So, the first step of our construction is importing 1-bit difference to  $m_{11}$  and  $v_2^8$  as

$$\Delta^b m_{11} = \Delta^b v_2^8 = (63). \tag{3}$$

In this way, according to **Observation 1** in [10], we can pass round 8 and 9 with probability  $2^{-1}$ . Then, we set  $\Delta^b m_i = \phi$  ( $i \in \{0, 1, \dots, 15\} \setminus \{11\}$ ) and  $\Delta^b v_j^8 = \phi$  ( $j \in \{0, 1, \dots, 15\} \setminus \{2\}$ ). Now that  $\Delta^b M$  and  $\Delta^b V^8$  are settled, we can linearly extend the difference backward to  $\Delta^b V^{6.5}$  and forward to  $\Delta^b V^{11}$ . This method can be applied to both BLAKE-512 and BLAKE2b. We present the bottom characteristics of BLAKE-512 and BLAKE2b as Table 4 and 5 in Appendix A respectively.

{5}------------------------------------------------

For BLAKE-256 and BLAKE2s, we can also import difference to ∆bM and ∆bV <sup>8</sup> as

$$\Delta^b m_{11} = \Delta^b v_2^8 = (31). (4)$$

and linearly deduce the whole bottom differential characteristics. The differential characteristic for BLAKE-256 mounts to round 10.5 and BLAKE2s reaches round 10 since it only has 10 rounds in total according to [\[6\]](#page-7-5). Refer to Table [6](#page-10-0) and Table [7](#page-10-1) in Appendix [A](#page-8-6) for detailed descriptions.

Construct the Top Differential Characteristic: The top differential characteristic starts from ∆tV 2.5 and ends at ∆tV 6.5 . The strategy of constructing the top differential characteristic is similar to that of its bottom counterpart. We found that m<sup>5</sup> appears at Step 1 in G<sup>1</sup> at round 4 and also appears at Step 5 in G<sup>5</sup> at round 5, so we decide to import the 1-bit difference at m<sup>5</sup> and v 4 1 . We assign that

<span id="page-5-0"></span>
$$\Delta^t m_5 = \Delta^t v_1^4 = (y), \text{ where } y \in \{0, \dots, 63\}.$$
 (5)

and that ∆bm<sup>i</sup> = φ ( i ∈ {0, · · · , 15} \ {5}) and ∆bv 4 <sup>j</sup> = φ (j ∈ {0, · · · , 15} \ {1}). Then, we can linearly extend the difference backward and forward. The position of the active bit y in [\(5\)](#page-5-0) requires careful selection. In order to avoid incompatible problems and enhance the efficiency of the attack, y must meet the following conditions:

1. When linearly extend the difference from ∆tV 4 (y) to ∆tV 6.5 (y), make sure that

$$\Delta^b v_i^{6.5} \wedge \Delta^t v_i^{6.5}(y) = 0 \times 0, \text{ for all } i \in \{0, \dots, 15\}.$$
 (6)

This restriction avoid the contradictions in the intersection part of the two differential characteristics.

2. (Only for BLAKE-512) Make sure that the constants c<sup>10</sup> and c<sup>7</sup> satisfies:

<span id="page-5-1"></span>
$$c_{10}[y] = \neg c_7[y]. \tag{7}$$

According to the linear extension, we have ∆tv 3.5 <sup>1</sup> = φ. It requires (m<sup>5</sup> ⊕ c10)[y] = ¬(m<sup>5</sup> ⊕ c7)[y], so [\(7\)](#page-5-1) must be satisfied.

3. (Only for BLAKE2b) When linearly extend to ∆tV 3.5 , ∆tv 3.5 1 should be set to

$$\Delta^t v_1^{3.5} = \Delta^t m_5 + \Delta^t m_5$$

instead of 0x0. Because BLAKE2b omit the use of constant, the difference can not be eliminated at v 3.5 1 .

The available ys satisfying conditions 1 and 2 compose a set X512, and those satisfying conditions 1 and 3 compose a set X2b. According to our analysis, X<sup>512</sup> has 13 elements and X2<sup>b</sup> has 40 elements. We present X<sup>512</sup> and X2<sup>b</sup> along with the corresponding top differential characteristics in Table [8](#page-11-0) and Table [9](#page-12-0) in Appendix [A.](#page-8-6)

Using the same method, we can also acquire the available ys for BLAKE-256 (X256) and BLAKE2s (X2s). We illustrate X<sup>256</sup> and X2<sup>s</sup> along with their characteristics in Table [10](#page-13-0) and Table [11](#page-14-0) in Appendix [A.](#page-8-6)

### 3.2 Finding the Boomerang Quartet Using Message Modification Technique

The goal of our boomerang attack is to find a quartet, denoted by (aV 2.5 , <sup>b</sup>V 2.5 , <sup>c</sup>V 2.5 , <sup>d</sup>V 2.5 ), and the message blocks (aM, <sup>b</sup>M, <sup>c</sup>M, <sup>d</sup>M) that satisfies

<span id="page-5-2"></span>
$$_{a}V^{2.5} \oplus _{c}V^{2.5} = _{b}V^{2.5} \oplus _{d}V^{2.5} = \Delta^{t}V^{2.5}$$
 (8)

$$_{a}M \oplus _{c}M = _{b}M \oplus _{d}M = \Delta^{t}M \tag{9}$$

$$_{a}M \oplus _{b}M = _{c}M \oplus _{d}M = \Delta^{b}M \tag{10}$$

and, after 8.5 rounds, the corresponding quartet (aV 11 , <sup>b</sup>V 11 , <sup>c</sup>V 11 , <sup>d</sup>V <sup>11</sup>) satisfies

$$_{a}V^{11} \oplus _{b}V^{11} = _{c}V^{11} \oplus _{d}V^{11} = \Delta^{b}V^{11}.$$

{6}------------------------------------------------

We start by searching for appropriate <sup>a</sup>V <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> and <sup>a</sup>M. Once <sup>a</sup>V 6.5 is determined, <sup>b</sup>V 6.5 , <sup>c</sup>V <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> and <sup>d</sup>V 6.5 can be settled directly since

<span id="page-6-0"></span>
$$_{a}V^{6.5} \oplus _{c}V^{6.5} = _{b}V^{6.5} \oplus _{d}V^{6.5} = \Delta^{t}V^{6.5}$$
 (11)

$$_{a}V^{6.5} \oplus _{b}V^{6.5} = _{c}V^{6.5} \oplus _{d}V^{6.5} = \Delta^{b}V^{6.5}$$
 (12)

Once <sup>a</sup>M is determined, <sup>b</sup>M, <sup>c</sup>M and <sup>d</sup>M can also be determined according to [\(9\)](#page-5-2) and [\(10\)](#page-5-2). The step of finding the quartet is as follows:

- 1. Construct an intermediate state, denoted by V 6.5 , and a message block, denoted by M, by setting the values of their 16 words randomly.
- 2. Compute backward to T V <sup>6</sup> and V 6 , and forward to T V <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> , V <sup>7</sup> . During the process, if one of bit conditions, which are deduced from the top and bottom characteristics, is violated, we can fix it by modifying the words of V <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> or M. This process is called the "message modification".
- 3. After all conditions between round 6 and 7 are satisfied, we assign that <sup>a</sup>V <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> ← V <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> and <sup>a</sup>M ← M. We also assign corresponding values to <sup>b</sup>V 6.5 , <sup>c</sup>V 6.5 , <sup>d</sup>V <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> according to [\(11\)](#page-6-0) [\(12\)](#page-6-0) and to <sup>b</sup>M, <sup>c</sup>M, <sup>d</sup>M according to [\(9\)](#page-5-2) [\(10\)](#page-5-2).
- 4. Having acquired (aV 6.5 , <sup>b</sup>V 6.5 , <sup>c</sup>V 6.5 dV 6.5 ) and (aM, <sup>b</sup>M, <sup>c</sup>M, <sup>d</sup>M), we compute backward to round 2.5. During the process, we check whether the differences of the intermediate states conform to the top differential characteristic. Once a contradiction is detected, go back to 1.
- 5. Compute forward from round 6.5 to round 11. During the computation, we check whether differences of the intermediate states conform to the bottom differential characteristic. Once a contradiction is detected, go back to 1. Otherwise, output the quartet (aV 11 , <sup>b</sup>V 11 , <sup>c</sup>V 11 , <sup>d</sup>V <sup>11</sup>).

Complexity analysis. For all 4 members of BLAKE and BLAKE2, there are 30 conditions in ∆bV <sup>6</sup> → ∆tV 6.5 . 29 of them can be fixed using the message modification technique. All two conditions in ∆tV <sup>6</sup> → ∆tV 5.5 can be fixed as well. Similarly, all 40 conditions in ∆bV <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆bV <sup>7</sup> and 2 out of 6 conditions in ∆bV <sup>7</sup> → ∆bV 7.5 can be fixed. Then, we analyze the four members separately as follows:

- BLAKE-512: In the bottom characteristic, there are 4 unfixed conditions in ∆bV <sup>7</sup> → ∆bV 7.5 , 1 in ∆bV <sup>9</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆bV <sup>10</sup>, 24 in ∆bV <sup>10</sup> → ∆bV <sup>10</sup>.<sup>5</sup> and 138 in ∆bV <sup>10</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆bV <sup>11</sup>, which is 167 in total. In the top characteristics, the situation is as follows: 1 unfixed condition in ∆tV <sup>4</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆tV 4 , 2 in ∆tV <sup>4</sup> → ∆tV 3.5 , 11 in ∆tV <sup>3</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆tV <sup>3</sup> and 51 in ∆tV <sup>3</sup> → ∆tV 2.5 , which is 65 in total. So, the complexity of the boomerang attack on BLAKE-512 is 2(167+65)×<sup>2</sup> = 2<sup>464</sup> .
- BLAKE2b: In the bottom characteristic, there are 4 unfixed conditions in ∆bV <sup>7</sup> → ∆bV 7.5 , 1 in ∆bV <sup>9</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆bV <sup>10</sup>, 24 in ∆bV <sup>10</sup> → ∆bV <sup>10</sup>.<sup>5</sup> and 124 in ∆bV <sup>10</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆bV <sup>11</sup>, which is 153 in total. The top differential characteristic is slightly different from BLAKE-512 after finishing the procedure ∆tV <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆tV 4 . There are 3 unfixed conditions in ∆tV <sup>4</sup> → ∆tV 3.5 , 13 in ∆tV <sup>3</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆tV <sup>3</sup> and 67 in ∆tV <sup>3</sup> → ∆tV 2.5 . So the number of unfixed conditions in the top characteristic enhances to 1 + 3 + 13 + 67 = 84. The complexity of the boomerang attack on BLAKE2b is 2(153+84)×<sup>2</sup> = 2<sup>474</sup> .
- BLAKE-256: Similar to BLAKE-512, the bottom characteristic of BLAKE-256, terminated at round 10.5, has 4 + 1 + 24 = 29 unfixed conditions (∆<sup>b</sup>V <sup>6</sup>.<sup>5</sup> → ∆<sup>t</sup>V 10.5 ). For the top characteristic of BLAKE-256, if we choose the active bit position y = 20 ∈ X256, which is also the case of [\[12\]](#page-7-11), there should be 71 unfixed conditions and the complexity of this 8-round boomerang attack is 2(29+71)×<sup>2</sup> = 2<sup>200</sup>. However, if we choose y = 28 ∈ X256, 1 condition in ∆<sup>t</sup>V <sup>3</sup> → ∆<sup>t</sup>V 2.5 can be eliminated and the complexity of the attack can lower to 2(29+70)×<sup>2</sup> = 2<sup>198</sup> .
- BLAKE2s: Similar to BLAKE2b, the bottom characteristic for BLAKE2s, terminated at round 10, has 4 + 1 = 5 unfixed conditions. The top characteristic has 88 unfixed conditions. So the complexity of this 7.5-round boomerang attack for BLAKE2s is 2(5+88)×<sup>2</sup> = 2<sup>186</sup>. Like BLAKE-256, if we choose y = 28 ∈ X2s, we can eliminate 1 condition in ∆<sup>t</sup>V <sup>3</sup> → ∆<sup>t</sup>V <sup>2</sup>.<sup>5</sup> and lower the complexity by 2<sup>2</sup> to 2<sup>184</sup> .

Practical Verifications. For each member of BLAKE and BLAKE2, we present a 6.5 round ( from round 3.5 to round 10) Type I boomerang quartet based on our characteristics and present it in Appendix [B.](#page-15-0) In order to show the structural difference between BLAKE and BLAKE2, we use the examples with the same message difference, which means: for BLAKE-256 and BLAKE2s, ∆<sup>t</sup>m<sup>5</sup> = (28) (y = 28 ∈ X<sup>256</sup> T X2s) and ∆<sup>b</sup>m<sup>11</sup> = (31) ; for BLAKE-512 and BLAKE2b, ∆<sup>t</sup>m<sup>5</sup> = (9) (y = 9 ∈ X<sup>512</sup> T X2b) and ∆<sup>b</sup>m<sup>11</sup> = (63).

{7}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-7-21"></span>4 Conclusion

In this paper, we compare the security margin of BLAKE and BLAKE2 under the boomerang attack model. We deduce valid differential characteristics and present boomerang attacks on keyed permutations of BLAKE-512, BLAKE2b, BLAKE-256 and BLAKE2s. According to our analysis, the boomerang method can mount to similar rounds for BLAKE and BLAKE2. For the same number of rounds, the complexities for attacking BLAKE2 are slightly higher than those for BLAKE, which indicates that some tweaks introduced by BLAKE2, aiming at enhancing efficiency and flexibility, have accidentally reinforced the resistance against the boomerang attack. However, since BLAKE has more rounds than BLAKE2, the security margin of BLAKE is still higher than that of BLAKE2. This result is in accordance with the assumptions of the designers.

Acknowledgement. This work has been supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 61133013) and by 973 Program (Grant No. 2013CB834205).

# References

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>1. Wang, X., Yu, H.: How to break md5 and other hash functions. In: Advances in Cryptology–EUROCRYPT 2005. Springer (2005) 19–35
- <span id="page-7-1"></span>2. Wang, X., Yin, Y.L., Yu, H.: Finding collisions in the full sha-1. In: Advances in Cryptology–CRYPTO 2005, Springer (2005) 17–36
- <span id="page-7-2"></span>3. Bertoni, G., Daemen, J., Peeters, M., Assche, G.: The keccak reference. Submission to NIST (Round 3) 13 (2011)
- <span id="page-7-3"></span>4. Aumasson, J.P., Henzen, L., Meier, W., Phan, R.C.W.: Sha-3 proposal blake. Submission to NIST (2008)
- <span id="page-7-4"></span>5. Chang, S.j., Perlner, R., Burr, W.E., Turan, M.S., Kelsey, J.M., Paul, S., Bassham, L.E.: Third-round report of the SHA-3 cryptographic hash algorithm competition. Citeseer (2012)
- <span id="page-7-5"></span>6. Aumasson, J.P., Neves, S., Wilcox-OHearn, Z., Winnerlein, C.: Blake2: simpler, smaller, fast as md5. In: Applied Cryptography and Network Security, Springer (2013) 119–135
- <span id="page-7-6"></span>7. Aumasson, J.P., Guo, J., Knellwolf, S., Matusiewicz, K., Meier, W.: Differential and invertibility properties of blake. In: Fast Software Encryption, Springer (2010) 318–332
- <span id="page-7-7"></span>8. Dunkelman, O., Khovratovich, D.: Iterative differentials, symmetries, and message modification in blake-256. In: ECRYPT2 Hash Workshop. Volume 2011. (2011)
- <span id="page-7-8"></span>9. Ji, L., Liangyu, X.: Attacks on round-reduced blake. Technical report, Citeseer (2009)
- <span id="page-7-9"></span>10. Biryukov, A., Nikoli´c, I., Roy, A.: Boomerang attacks on blake-32. In: Fast Software Encryption, Springer (2011) 218–237
- <span id="page-7-10"></span>11. Leurent, G.: Arxtools: A toolkit for arx analysis. In: The Third SHA-3 Candidate Conference. (2012)
- <span id="page-7-11"></span>12. Bai, D., Yu, H., Wang, G., Wang, X.: Improved boomerang attacks on round-reduced sm3 and blake-256. (2013) <http://eprint.iacr.org/>.
- <span id="page-7-12"></span>13. Guo, J., Karpman, P., Nikoli´c, I., Wang, L., Wu, S.: Analysis of blake2. In: Topics in Cryptology–CT-RSA 2014. Springer (2014) 402–423
- <span id="page-7-13"></span>14. Wagner, D.: The boomerang attack. In: Fast Software Encryption, Springer (1999) 156–170
- <span id="page-7-14"></span>15. Kelsey, J., Kohno, T., Schneier, B.: Amplified boomerang attacks against reduced-round mars and serpent. In: Fast Software Encryption, Springer (2001) 75–93
- <span id="page-7-15"></span>16. Biham, E., Dunkelman, O., Keller, N.: The rectangle attackrectangling the serpent. In: Advances in CryptologyEUROCRYPT 2001. Springer (2001) 340–357
- <span id="page-7-16"></span>17. Biham, E., Dunkelman, O., Keller, N.: Related-key boomerang and rectangle attacks. In: Advances in Cryptology– EUROCRYPT 2005. Springer (2005) 507–525
- <span id="page-7-17"></span>18. Lamberger, M., Mendel, F.: Higher-order differential attack on reduced sha-256. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2011 (2011) 37
- <span id="page-7-18"></span>19. Biryukov, A., Lamberger, M., Mendel, F., Nikoli´c, I.: Second-order differential collisions for reduced sha-256. In: Advances in Cryptology–ASIACRYPT 2011. Springer (2011) 270–287
- <span id="page-7-19"></span>20. Mendel, F., Nad, T.: Boomerang distinguisher for the simd-512 compression function. In: Progress in Cryptology– INDOCRYPT 2011. Springer (2011) 255–269
- <span id="page-7-20"></span>21. Sasaki, Y., Wang, L., Takasaki, Y., Sakiyama, K., Ohta, K.: Boomerang distinguishers for full has-160 compression function. In: Advances in Information and Computer Security. Springer (2012) 156–169

{8}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>22. Sasaki, Y., Wang, L.: Distinguishers beyond three rounds of the ripemd-128/-160 compression functions. In: Applied Cryptography and Network Security, Springer (2012) 275–292
- <span id="page-8-1"></span>23. Leurent, G., Roy, A.: Boomerang attacks on hash function using auxiliary differentials. In: Topics in Cryptology—CT-RSA 2012. Springer (2012) 215–230
- <span id="page-8-2"></span>24. Yu, H., Chen, J., Wang, X.: The boomerang attacks on the round-reduced skein-512. In: Selected Areas in Cryptography, Springer (2013) 287–303
- <span id="page-8-3"></span>25. Kircanski, A., Shen, Y., Wang, G., Youssef, A.M.: Boomerang and slide-rotational analysis of the sm3 hash function. In: Selected Areas in Cryptography, Springer (2013) 304–320
- <span id="page-8-4"></span>26. Bai, D., Yu, H., Wang, G., Wang, X.: Improved boomerang attacks on sm3. In: Information Security and Privacy, Springer (2013) 251–266
- <span id="page-8-5"></span>27. Wagner, D.: A generalized birthday problem. In: Advances in cryptologyCRYPTO 2002. Springer (2002) 288–304

# Appendix

# <span id="page-8-6"></span>A The Bottom & Top Differential Characteristics for BLAKE and BLAKE2

<span id="page-8-7"></span>**Table 4.** The bottom characteristic for BLAKE-512.  $\Delta^b m_{11} = (63)$ .

| Variable                                                                      | Difference (Numeric Form)                              | Cond       | Variable              | Difference (Numeric Form)                                              | Cond |  |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|------------|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|--|
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_0^{6.5} = (63, 42, 35, 10, 3)$             |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_0^{10.5} = (63, 6)$                                        |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_1^{6.5} = (63, 31)$                        |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_1^{10.5} = (43, 36, 11)$                                   |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_2^{6.5} = (63, 47, 24, 15)$                |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_2^{10.5} = (22)$                                           |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_3^{6.5} = (60, 56, 40, 31, 24, 10, 8)$     |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_3^{10.5} = (54)$                                           |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_4^{6.5} = (60, 56, 47, 40, 35, 24, 15, 8)$ |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_4^{10.5} = (59, 43, 36, 20, 4)$                            |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_5^{6.5} = (63, 35, 24, 3)$                 |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_5^{10.5} = (57, 48, 41, 32, 16, 9, 0)$                     |      |  |
| $\Delta^b V^{6.5}$                                                            | $\Delta^b v_7^{6.5} = (63, 47, 24, 15)$                | -          |                       | $\Delta^b v_6^{10.5} = (59, 36, 11)$                                   |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_8^{6.5} = (63, 47, 31, 15)$                |            | 4 h = -10 5           | $\Delta^b v_7^{10.5} = (52, 43, 27, 4)$                                |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{6.5} = (24)$                         |            | $\Delta^b V^{10.5}$ : | $\Delta v_8 = (34, 47, 31, 13)$                                        | 24   |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{11}^{6.5} = (63, 31)$                     |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_9^{10.5} = (59, 52, 27, 20, 4)$                            |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{6.5} = (63)$                         |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{10.5} = (47, 6)$                                     |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{6.5} = (35, 31, 10)$                 |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{11}^{10.5} = (63, 38, 15)$                                |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{6.5} = (56, 42, 31, 24, 10)$         |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{12}^{10.5} = (54, 47, 15)$                                |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_0^7 = (63, 24)$                            |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{10.5} = (59, 52, 27, 20)$                            |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_1^7 = (63, 31)$                            |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{10.5} = (6)$                                         |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_2^7 = (63)$                                |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{10.5} = (63, 38)$                                    |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_4^7 = (63, 24)$                            |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_0^{11} = (63, 57, 48, 41, 22, 16, 13, 9, 6)$               |      |  |
| 4 h x z 7                                                                     | $\Delta^b v_5^7 = (63, 31)$                            | 40         |                       | $\Delta^b v_1^{11} = (63, 61, 59, 43, 38, 34, 22, 13, 11, 2)$          |      |  |
| $\Delta^{o}V'$                                                                | $\Delta^b v_8^7 = (63)$                                | (40 fixed) |                       | $\Delta^b v_2^{11} = (54, 52, 50, 27, 18, 11, 6, 4)$                   |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_9^7 = (63, 47, 31, 15)$                    |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_3^{11} = (61, 59, 54, 50, 36, 20, 18, 13, 4)$              |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{10}^7 = (63)$                             |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_4^{11} = (59, 57, 55, 39, 34, 23, 9, 7, 2)$                |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{13}^7 = (47, 15)$                         |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_5^{11} = (59, 50, 27, 14, 2)$                              |      |  |
| $\Delta^b V^7$ $\Delta^b V^{7.5}$ $\Delta^b V^{8.5} \dots$ $\Delta^b V^{9.5}$ | $\Delta^b v_{14}^7 = (63, 31)$                         |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_6^{11} = (55, 39, 34, 32, 23, 20, 11, 7, 2, 0)$            |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_2^{7.5} = (63)$                            | 6          |                       | $\Delta^b v_7^{11} = (59, 55, 39, 36, 32, 25, 23,$                     |      |  |
| $\Delta^b V^{7.5}$                                                            | $\Delta^b v_8^{7.5} = (63)$                            | (2 fixed)  |                       | 20, 16, 11, 9, 7, 4)                                                   |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{7.5} = (63, 31)$                     |            | $\Delta^b V^{11}$     | $\Delta^b v_8^{11} = (54, 47, 36, 34, 31, 27, 20, 15, 11, 2)$          | 138  |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_2^8 = (63)$                                | 0          |                       | $\Delta^b v_9^{11} = (61, 45, 43, 34, 20, 6, 4, 2)$                    |      |  |
|                                                                               |                                                        | 0          |                       | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{11} = (61, 38, 32, 25, 22, 6, 0)$                    |      |  |
| $ \cdots \Delta^b V^{9.5} $                                                   | Ψ                                                      | U          |                       | $\Delta^b v_{11}^{11} = (61, 50, 45, 43, 38, 31, 18)$                  |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_0^{10} = (63)$                             |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{12}^{11} = (63, 61, 50, 47, 45, 43, 31, 27, 22, 18, 11)$  |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_5^{10} = (36)$                             |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{11} = (54, 52, 34, 20, 2)$                           |      |  |
| $\Delta^b V^{10}$ :                                                           | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{10} = (47)$                          | 1          |                       | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{11} = (61, 59, 45, 43, 38, 36, 34, 22, 11, 6, 4, 2)$ |      |  |
|                                                                               | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{10} = (47)$                          |            |                       | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{11} = (61, 48, 47, 41, 22, 16, 9, 6)$                |      |  |
|                                                                               |                                                        |            |                       |                                                                        |      |  |

{9}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Table 5.** The bottom characteristic for BLAKE2b.  $\Delta^b m_{11} = (63)$ .

| Variable                                                                                       | Difference (Numeric Form)                                | Cond        | Variable                    | Difference (Numeric Form)                                                                                                                              | Cond |  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|--|
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_0^{6.5} = (63, 62, 54, 30, 22)$              |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_0^{10.5} = (63, 7)$                                                                                                                        |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_1^{6.5} = (63, 31)$                          |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_1^{10.5} = (56, 48, 24)$                                                                                                                   |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_2^{6.5} = (63, 47, 23, 15)$                  |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_2^{10.5} = (23)$                                                                                                                           |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_3^{6.5} = (62, 55, 46, 39, 31, 23, 7)$       |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_3^{10.5} = (55)$                                                                                                                           |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_4^{6.5} = (55, 47, 46, 39, 23, 22, 15, 7)$   |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_4^{10.5} = (56, 48, 32, 16, 8)$                                                                                                            |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_5^{6.5} = (63, 54, 23, 22)$                  |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_5^{10.5} = (57, 41, 33, 25, 17, 9, 1)$                                                                                                     |      |  |
| $\Delta^b V^{6.5}$                                                                             | $\Delta^b v_7^{6.5} = (63, 47, 23, 15)$                  | -           |                             | $\Delta^b v_6^{10.5} = (48, 24, 8)$                                                                                                                    |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_8^{6.5} = (63, 47, 31, 15)$                  |             | Ab 7 7 10 5                 | $\Delta^b v_7^{10.5} = (56, 40, 16, 0)$                                                                                                                |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{6.5} = (23)$                           |             | $\Delta^{\sigma}V^{10.5}$ : | $\Delta^b v_7^{10.5} = (50, 40, 10, 0)$ $\Delta^b v_8^{10.5} = (55, 47, 31, 15)$                                                                       | 24   |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{11}^{6.5} = (63, 31)$                       |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_9^{10.5} = (40, 32, 16, 8, 0)$                                                                                                             |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{6.5} = (63)$                           |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{10.5} = (47,7)$                                                                                                                      |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{6.5} = (62, 31, 22)$                   |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{11}^{10.5} = (63, 39, 15)$                                                                                                                |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{6.5} = (62, 55, 31, 30, 23)$           |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{12}^{10.5} = (55, 47, 15)$                                                                                                                |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_0^7 = (63, 23)$                              |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{10.5} = (40, 32, 8, 0)$                                                                                                              |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b_1 v_1^7 = (63, 31)$                            |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{10.5} = (7)$                                                                                                                         |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b_1 v_2^7 = (63)$                                |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{10.5} = (63, 39)$                                                                                                                    |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_4^7 = (63, 23)$                              |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_0^{11} = (63, 41, 33, 23, 17, 15, 9, 7, 1)$                                                                                                |      |  |
| Ab1/7                                                                                          | $\Delta_{5}^{b}v_{5}^{7}=(63,31)$                        | 40          |                             | $\Delta^b v_1^{11} = (56, 48, 39, 24, 23, 16, 15, 8)$                                                                                                  |      |  |
| $\Delta^b V^7$                                                                                 | $\Delta^b v_8^7 = (63)$                                  | (40  fixed) |                             | $\Delta^b v_2^{11} = (55, 40, 32, 24, 16, 7)$                                                                                                          |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta_{1}^{b}v_{9}^{7} = (63, 47, 31, 15)$             |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_3^{11} = (63, 55, 48, 16, 15, 8, 0)$                                                                                                       |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{10}^7 = (63)$                               |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_4^{11} = (49, 48, 16, 8, 1)$                                                                                                               |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{13}^7 = (47, 15)$                           |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_5^{11} = (50, 40, 16, 8, 0)$                                                                                                               |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{14}^7 = (63, 31)$                           |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_6^{11} = (57, 49, 48, 33, 32, 25, 24, 17, 16, 1)$                                                                                          |      |  |
| 7 =                                                                                            | $\Delta^b v_2^{7.5} = (63)$                              | 6           |                             | $\Delta^b v_7^{11} = (57, 48, 41, 32, 24, 17, 16, 8, 1)$                                                                                               |      |  |
| $\int \Delta^{b} V^{r,5}$                                                                      | $\Delta^b v_8^{7.5} = (63)$                              | (2 fixed)   | $A^bV^{11}$                 | $\Delta^b v_8^{11} = (55, 47, 40, 32, 31, 24, 16, 15)$ $\Delta^b v_9^{11} = (63, 56, 48, 47, 32, 7)$ $\Delta^b v_9^{11} = (63, 57, 40, 30, 25, 23, 7)$ | 124  |  |
| h = -0                                                                                         | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{7.5} = (63, 31)$                       | _           |                             | $\Delta^{b}v_{9}^{11} = (63, 56, 48, 47, 32, 7)$                                                                                                       | 124  |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_2^8 = (63)$                                  | 0           |                             | $[\Delta \ v_{10} - (00, 01, 49, 09, 20, 20, 1)]$                                                                                                      |      |  |
| $ \begin{array}{ c c } \hline \Delta^b V^{8.5} \cdots \\ \cdots \Delta^b V^{9.5} \end{array} $ | $\phi$                                                   | 0           |                             | $\Delta^b v_{11}^{11} = (63, 56, 47, 39, 32, 31, 0)$                                                                                                   |      |  |
| $\cdots \Delta^{\sigma}V^{\sigma,\sigma}$                                                      |                                                          |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{12}^{11} = (56, 40, 32, 31, 24, 23, 0)$                                                                                                   |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_0^{10} = (63)$                               | 1           |                             | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{11} = (55, 48, 32, 16, 0)$                                                                                                           |      |  |
| $\Delta^b V^{10}$ :                                                                            | $\Delta^b v_5^{10} = (48)$ $\Delta^b v_{10}^{10} = (47)$ |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{11} = (63, 56, 47, 39, 24, 23, 8, 7)$                                                                                                |      |  |
|                                                                                                |                                                          |             |                             | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{11} = (63, 47, 41, 33, 23, 9, 7, 1)$                                                                                                 |      |  |
|                                                                                                | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{10} = (47)$                            |             |                             |                                                                                                                                                        |      |  |

{10}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Table 6.** The bottom characteristic for BLAKE-256.  $\Delta^b m_{11} = (31)$ .

| Variable           | Difference (Numeric Form)                             | Cond          | Variable                                   | Difference (Numeric Form)                          | Cond                              |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
|                    | $\Delta^b v_0^{6.5} = (31, 22, 18, 6, 2)$             |               | $\Delta^b V^8$                             | $\Delta^b v_2^8 = (31)$                            | 0                                 |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_1^{6.5} = (31, 15)$                       |               | $\Delta^b V^{8.5} \cdots \Delta^b V^{9.5}$ | $\phi$                                             | 0                                 |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_2^{6.5} = (31, 23, 11, 7)$                |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_0^{10} = (31)$                         |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_3^{6.5} = (30, 27, 19, 15, 11, 6, 3)$     |               | $\Delta^b V^{10}$ :                        | $\Delta^b v_5^{10} = (16)$                         | 1                                 |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_4^{6.5} = (30, 27, 23, 19, 18, 11, 7, 3)$ |               | $\Delta V$ :                               | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{10} = (23)$                      | $\begin{vmatrix} 1 \end{vmatrix}$ |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_5^{6.5} = (31, 18, 11, 2)$                |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{10} = (23)$                      |                                   |
| $\Delta^b V^{6.5}$ | $\Delta^b v_7^{6.5} = (31, 23, 11, 7)$                |               |                                            |                                                    |                                   |
| $\Delta V$         | $\Delta^b v_8^{6.5} = (31, 23, 15, 7)$                | -             |                                            |                                                    |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{6.5} = (11)$                        |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_0^{10.5} = (31, 3)$                    |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{11}^{6.5} = (31, 15)$                    |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_1^{10.5} = (20, 16, 4)$                |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{6.5} = (31)$                        |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_2^{10.5} = (11)$                       |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{6.5} = (18, 15, 6)$                 |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_3^{10.5} = (27)$                       |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{6.5} = (27, 22, 15, 11, 6)$         |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_4^{10.5} = (28, 20, 16, 8, 0)$         |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_0^7 = (31, 11)$                           |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_5^{10.5} = (29, 25, 21, 17, 13, 5, 1)$ |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_1^7 = (31, 15)$                           |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_6^{10.5} = (28, 16, 4)$                |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_2^7 = (31)$                               |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_7^{10.5} = (24, 20, 12, 0)$            |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_4^7 = (31, 11)$                           |               | $\Delta^b V^{10.5}$ :                      | $\Delta^b v_8^{10.5} = (27, 23, 15, 7)$            | 24                                |
| $\Delta^b V^7$     | $\Delta^b v_5^7 = (31, 15)$                           | 40 (40 C 1)   |                                            | $\Delta^b v_9^{10.5} = (28, 24, 12, 8, 0)$         |                                   |
| $\Delta^*V$        | $\Delta^b v_8^7 = (31)$                               | 40 (40 fixed) |                                            | $\Delta^b v_{10}^{10.5} = (23,3)$                  |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_9^7 = (31, 23, 15, 7)$                    |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_{11}^{10.5} = (31, 19, 7)$             |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{10}^7 = (31)$                            |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_{12}^{10.5} = (27, 23, 7)$             |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{13}^7 = (23,7)$                          |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{10.5} = (28, 24, 12, 8)$         |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{14}^7 = (31, 15)$                        |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{10.5} = (3)$                     |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_2^{7.5} = (31)$                           |               |                                            | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{10.5} = (31, 19)$                |                                   |
| $\Delta^b V^{7.5}$ | $\Delta^b v_8^{7.5} = (31)$                           | 6 (2 fixed)   |                                            |                                                    |                                   |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{13}^{7.5} = (31, 15)$                    |               |                                            |                                                    |                                   |

<span id="page-10-1"></span>**Table 7.** The bottom characteristic for BLAKE2s.  $\Delta^b m_{11} = (31)$ .

| Variable           | Difference (Numeric Form)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Cond | Variable                                   | Difference (Numeric Form)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Cond          |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| . h6 5             | $\Delta^{b}v_{0}^{6.5} = (31, 22, 18, 6, 2)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{1}^{6.5} = (31, 15)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{2}^{6.5} = (31, 23, 11, 7)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{3}^{6.5} = (30, 27, 19, 15, 11, 6, 3)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{4}^{6.5} = (30, 27, 23, 19, 18, 11, 7, 3)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{5}^{6.5} = (31, 18, 11, 2)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{7}^{6.5} = (31, 23, 11, 7)$ |      | $\varDelta^b V^7$                          | $ \Delta^{b}v_{0}^{7} = (31, 11) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{1}^{7} = (31, 15) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{2}^{7} = (31) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{4}^{7} = (31, 11) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{5}^{7} = (31, 15) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{8}^{7} = (31, 15) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{9}^{7} = (31, 23, 15, 7) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{10}^{7} = (31) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{13}^{7} = (23, 7) $ $ \Delta^{b}v_{14}^{7} = (31, 15) $ | 40 (40 fixed) |
| $\Delta^b V^{6.5}$ | $\Delta^{b}v_{8}^{6.5} = (31, 23, 15, 7)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{10}^{6.5} = (11)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{11}^{6.5} = (31, 15)$                                                                                                                                                                                                               | _    | $\varDelta^b V^{7.5}$                      | $\Delta^{b}v_{2}^{7.5} = (31)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{8}^{7.5} = (31)$ $\Delta^{b}v_{13}^{7.5} = (31, 15)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 6 (2 fixed)   |
|                    | $\Delta_{13}^{b}v_{13}^{6.5} = (31)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |      |                                            | $\Delta^b v_2^8 = (31)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 0             |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{14}^{6.5} = (18, 15, 6)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |      | $\Delta^b V^{8.5} \cdots \Delta^b V^{9.5}$ | $\phi$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 0             |
|                    | $\Delta^b v_{15}^{6.5} = (27, 22, 15, 11, 6)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |      | /(0 (/ ±0.                                 | $ \Delta^{b} v_{0}^{10} = (31) $ $ \Delta^{b} v_{5}^{10} = (16) $ $ \Delta^{b} v_{10}^{10} = (23) $ $ \Delta^{b} v_{15}^{10} = (23) $                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 1             |

{11}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Table 8.** The top characteristic for BLAKE-512. Message difference is  $\Delta^t m_5 = (y)$  where  $y \in \mathbb{X}_{512}$ 

|                                            | $X_{512} = \{5, 9, 18, 20, 22, 29, 34, 38, 41, 45, 48, 52, 54\}$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |               |
|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| Variable                                   | Difference (Numeric Form)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Cond          |
| $A^t V^{2.5}$ .                            | $\begin{array}{l} \Delta^t v_0^{2.5} = (y+32) \\ \Delta^t v_1^{2.5} = (y+48,y+25,y+16) \\ \Delta^t v_2^{2.5} = (y+41,y+25,y+11,y+9,y+61,y+57) \\ \Delta^t v_3^{2.5} = (y+43,y+36,y+25,y+11,y+4) \\ \Delta^t v_4^{2.5} = (y+36,y+4) \\ \Delta^t v_5^{2.5} = (y) \\ \Delta^t v_6^{2.5} = (y+48,y+25,y+16,y) \\ \Delta^t v_7^{2.5} = (y+48,y+41,y+36,y+32,y+25,y+16,y+9,y,y+61,y+57) \\ \Delta^t v_7^{2.5} = (y+48,y+32,y+16,y) \\ \Delta^t v_9^{2.5} = (y+25) \\ \Delta^t v_{10}^{2.5} = (y+32,y+16) \\ \Delta^t v_{11}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+32,y+16) \\ \Delta^t v_{12}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+32,y+16) \\ \Delta^t v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+36,y+32,y+16,y+11,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+36,y+32,y+16,y+11,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+36,y+32,y+16,y+11,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+25,y+11,y+57) \end{array}$ | 51            |
| / 1/3                                      | $\Delta^{t}v_{15}^{2.5} = (y+48)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{0}^{3} = (y+32,y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{3}^{3} = (y+25)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{4}^{3} = (y+32,y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{7}^{3} = (y+25,y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{8}^{3} = (y+48,y+32,y+16,y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{11}^{3} = (y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{12}^{3} = (y+48,y+16)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{15}^{3} = (y)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 11            |
| $\Delta^t V^{3.5}$                         | $\Delta^t v_{11}^{3.5} = (y)$ $\Delta^t v_{12}^{3.5} = (y+32, y)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 2             |
| $\Delta^t V^4$                             | $\Delta^t v_1^4 = (y)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 1             |
| $\Delta^t V^{4.5} \cdots \Delta^t V^{5.5}$ | $\phi$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 2 (2 fixed)   |
| $\varDelta^t V^6$                          | $ \Delta^{t} v_{1}^{6} = (y)  \Delta^{t} v_{6}^{6} = (y + 37)  \Delta^{t} v_{11}^{6} = (y + 48)  \Delta^{t} v_{12}^{6} = (y + 48) $                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 30 (29 fixed) |
| $\varDelta^t V^{6.5}$                      | $\begin{array}{l} \Delta^t v_0^{6.5} = (y,y+55) \\ \Delta^t v_1^{6.5} = (y+7,y) \\ \Delta^t v_2^{6.5} = (y+44,y+37,y+12) \\ \Delta^t v_3^{6.5} = (y+23) \\ \Delta^t v_4^{6.5} = (y+53,y+44,y+37,y+28,y+5) \\ \Delta^t v_5^{6.5} = (y+44,y+37,y+21,y+5,y+60) \\ \Delta^t v_6^{6.5} = (y+49,y+42,y+33,y+17,y+10,y+1,y+58) \\ \Delta^t v_7^{6.5} = (y+37,y+12,y+60) \\ \Delta^t v_8^{6.5} = (y+48,y+39,y+16,y) \\ \Delta^t v_9^{6.5} = (y+48,y+32,y+16,y+55) \\ \Delta^t v_{10}^{6.5} = (y+53,y+28,y+21,y+5,y+60) \\ \Delta^t v_{11}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+39,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{12}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+39,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{13}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+39,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{14}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+16,y+55) \\ \Delta^t v_{14}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+16,y+55) \\ \Delta^t v_{14}^{6.5} = (y+53,y+28,y+21,y+60) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+7) \end{array}$ | -             |

{12}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Table 9.** The top characteristic for BLAKE2b. Message difference is  $\Delta^t m_5 = (y)$  where  $y \in \mathbb{X}_{2b}$ 

| $\mathbb{X}_{2b} = \{0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60\}$ |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                           |  |  |  |  |  |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|--|--|--|--|--|
| Variable                                                                                                                                                                        | Difference (Numeric Form)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Cond                      |  |  |  |  |  |
| $\Delta^t V^{2.5}$ :                                                                                                                                                            | $\begin{array}{l} \Delta^{t}v_{0}^{2.5} = (y+32) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{1}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+24,y+16,y+1) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{2}^{2.5} = (y+47,y+40,y+33,y+24,y+8,y+1,y+63,y+56) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{2}^{2.5} = (y+31,y+25,y+24,y+23,y+63,y+55) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{4}^{2.5} = (y+25,y+23,y+1,y+55) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{5}^{2.5} = (y) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{6}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+24,y+16,y) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{7}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+47,y+40,y+33,y+32,y+24,y+23,y+16,y+8,y+1,y,y+56) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{8}^{2.5} = (y+49,y+48,y+33,y+32,y+17,y+16,y+1,y) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{10}^{2.5} = (y+24,y+1) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{11}^{2.5} = (y+32,y+16) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{12}^{2.5} = (y+48,y+32,y+16,y+1) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{12}^{2.5} = (y+49,y+48,y+32,y+17,y+16,y,y+63) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+49,y+48,y+32,y+23,y+17,y+16,y,y+63) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+49,y+48,y+32,y+23,y+17,y+16,y,y+63) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+49,y+48,y+32,y+23,y+56) \\ \Delta^{t}v_{15}^{2.5} = (y+48) \end{array}$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 67                        |  |  |  |  |  |
| $\Delta^t V^3$ : $\Delta^t V^{3.5}$ :                                                                                                                                           | $\Delta^{t}v_{0}^{3} = (y + 32, y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{1}^{3} = (y + 1)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{3}^{3} = (y + 24)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{4}^{3} = (y + 32, y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{7}^{3} = (y + 24, y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{8}^{3} = (y + 48, y + 32, y + 16, y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{9}^{3} = (y + 1)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{11}^{3} = (y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{13}^{3} = (y + 48, y + 16)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{13}^{3} = (y + 33, y + 1)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{15}^{3} = (y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{15}^{3.5} = (y + 1)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{11}^{3.5} = (y + 1)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 3                         |  |  |  |  |  |
| $\Delta^t V^4$ :                                                                                                                                                                | $\Delta^t v_{12}^{3.5} = (y+32,y)$ $\Delta^t v_1^4 = (y)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | 1                         |  |  |  |  |  |
| $\frac{\Delta V:}{\Delta^t V^{4.5} \cdots \Delta^t V^{5.5}}$                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 1                         |  |  |  |  |  |
| $\Delta^t V^{10} \cdots \Delta^t V^{6}$ :                                                                                                                                       | $ \Delta^{t} v_{1}^{6} = (y)  \Delta^{t} v_{6}^{6} = (y+49)  \Delta^{t} v_{11}^{6} = (y+48)  \Delta^{t} v_{12}^{6} = (y+48) $                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 2 (2 fixed) 30 (29 fixed) |  |  |  |  |  |
| $\varDelta^t V^{6.5}$ :                                                                                                                                                         | $ \begin{array}{l} \Delta^t v_0^{6.5} = (y,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_1^{6.5} = (y+8,y) \\ \Delta^t v_2^{6.5} = (y+49,y+25,y+57) \\ \Delta^t v_3^{6.5} = (y+24) \\ \Delta^t v_4^{6.5} = (y+49,y+41,y+17,y+1,y+57) \\ \Delta^t v_5^{6.5} = (y+49,y+33,y+17,y+9,y+57) \\ \Delta^t v_6^{6.5} = (y+42,y+34,y+26,y+18,y+10,y+2,y+58) \\ \Delta^t v_7^{6.5} = (y+49,y+25,y+9) \\ \Delta^t v_8^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y) \\ \Delta^t v_9^{6.5} = (y+48,y+32,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{10}^{6.5} = (y+41,y+33,y+17,y+9,y+1) \\ \Delta^t v_{11}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{13}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{14}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{14}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+40,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+48,y+16,y+56) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+8) \end{array}$ | -                         |  |  |  |  |  |

{13}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-13-0"></span>**Table 10.** The top characteristic for BLAKE-256. Message difference is  $\Delta^t m_5 = (y)$  where  $y \in \mathbb{X}_{256}$ .

|                                            | $\mathbb{X}_{256} = \{20, 28\}$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |               |
|--------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| Variable                                   | Difference (Numeric Form)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Cond          |
|                                            | Difference (Numeric Form) $ \Delta^t v_0^{2.5} = (y+16) $ $ \Delta^t v_1^{2.5} = (y+8,y+24,y+12) $ $ \Delta^t v_2^{2.5} = (y+7,y+4,y+31,y+28,y+20,y+12) $ $ \Delta^t v_2^{2.5} = (y+7,y+3,y+23,y+19,y+12) $ $ \Delta^t v_4^{2.5} = (y+3,y+19) $ $ \Delta^t v_5^{2.5} = (y) $ $ \Delta^t v_6^{2.5} = (y+8,y,y+24,y+12) $ $ \Delta^t v_7^{2.5} = (y+8,y+4,y,y+31,y+28,y+24,y+20,y+19,y+16,y+12) $ $ \Delta^t v_8^{2.5} = (y+8,y,y+24,y+16) $ $ \Delta^t v_9^{2.5} = (y+12) $ $ \Delta^t v_{10}^{2.5} = (y+8,y+16) $ $ \Delta^t v_{11}^{2.5} = (y+8,y+24,y+16) $ $ \Delta^t v_{12}^{2.5} = (y+8,y+24,y+16) $ $ \Delta^t v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+8,y+7,y,y+24,y+19,y+16) $ $ \Delta^t v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+8,y+7,y,y+24,y+19,y+16) $ $ \Delta^t v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+7,y+28,y+23,y+12) $                                                      |               |
| $\varDelta^t V^3$                          | $\Delta^{t}v_{15}^{2.5} = (y+24)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{0}^{3} = (y,y+16)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{3}^{3} = (y+12)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{4}^{3} = (y,y+16)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{7}^{3} = (y,y+12)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{8}^{3} = (y+8,y,y+24,y+16)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{11}^{3} = (y)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{12}^{3} = (y+8,y+24)$ $\Delta^{t}v_{15}^{3} = (y)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 14            |
| $\Delta^t V^{3.5}$                         | $ \Delta^t v_{11}^{3.5} = (y)  \Delta^t v_{12}^{3.5} = (y, y + 16) $                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 2             |
| $\Delta^t V^4$                             | $\Delta^t v_1^4 = (y)$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 1             |
| $\Delta^t V^{4.5} \cdots \Delta^t V^{5.5}$ | $\phi$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 2 (2 fixed)   |
| $\varDelta^t V^6$                          | $ \Delta^{t} v_{1}^{6} = (y)  \Delta^{t} v_{6}^{6} = (y+17)  \Delta^{t} v_{11}^{6} = (y+24)  \Delta^{t} v_{12}^{6} = (y+24) $                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 30 (29 fixed) |
| $\varDelta^t V^{6.5}$                      | $\begin{array}{l} \Delta^t v_0^{6.5} = (y,y+28) \\ \Delta^t v_1^{6.5} = (y+4,y) \\ \Delta^t v_2^{6.5} = (y+5,y+21,y+17) \\ \Delta^t v_3^{6.5} = (y+12) \\ \Delta^t v_4^{6.5} = (y+1,y+25,y+21,y+17,y+13) \\ \Delta^t v_5^{6.5} = (y+9,y+1,y+29,y+21,y+17) \\ \Delta^t v_6^{6.5} = (y+6,y+2,y+30,y+26,y+22,y+18,y+14) \\ \Delta^t v_7^{6.5} = (y+5,y+29,y+17) \\ \Delta^t v_8^{6.5} = (y+8,y,y+24,y+20) \\ \Delta^t v_9^{6.5} = (y+8,y+28,y+24,y+16) \\ \Delta^t v_{10}^{6.5} = (y+8,y+29,y+25,y+13) \\ \Delta^t v_{11}^{6.5} = (y+4,y+24) \\ \Delta^t v_{13}^{6.5} = (y+8,y+28,y+24) \\ \Delta^t v_{14}^{6.5} = (y+8,y+28,y+24) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+9,y+29,y+25,y+13) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+9,y+29,y+25,y+13) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+9,y+29,y+25,y+13) \\ \Delta^t v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+4) \end{array}$ | -             |

<sup>\*:</sup> If y = 28, the condition  $v_3^{2.5}[y+3] = \neg v_4^{2.5}[y+3]$  in  $\Delta^t V^3 \to \Delta^t V^{2.5}$  can be eliminated.

{14}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-14-0"></span>**Table 11.** The top characteristic for BLAKE2s. Message difference is  $\Delta^t m_5 = (y)$  where  $y \in \mathbb{X}_{2s}$ .

|                                              | $\mathbb{X}_{2s} = \{0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28\}$                                                                 |              |
|----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| Variable                                     | Difference (Numeric Form)                                                                                           | Cond         |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_0^{2.5} = (y+16)$                                                                                       |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_1^{2.5} = (y+8, y+1, y+24, y+12)$                                                                       |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_2^{2.5} = (y+7, y+4, y+1, y+31, y+28, y+20, y+17, y+12)$                                                |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_3^{2.5} = (y+7, \mathbf{y}+3, y+23, y+19, y+13, y+12)$                                                  |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_4^{2.5} = (\mathbf{y} + 3, y + 1, y + 19, y + 13)$                                                      |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_5^{2.5} = (y)$                                                                                          |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_6^{2.5} = (y+8, y, y+24, y+12)$                                                                         |              |
| $\Delta^t V^{2.5}$ :                         | $\Delta^{t}v_{7}^{2.5} = (y+8, y+4, y+1, y, y+31, y+28, y+24, y+20, y+19, y+17, y+16, y+12)$                        | 69/67*       |
| $\Delta V$ :                                 | $\Delta^t v_8^{2.5} = (y+9, y+8, y+1, y, y+25, y+24, y+17, y+16)$                                                   | 68/67*       |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_9^{2.5} = (y+1, y+12)$                                                                                  |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_{10}^{2.5} = (y+8, y+16)$                                                                               |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_{11}^{2.5} = (y+8, y+1, y+24, y+16)$                                                                    |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_{12}^{2.5} = (y+1, y+17, y+16)$                                                                         |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t} v_{13}^{2.5} = (y+9, y+8, y+7, y, y+25, y+24, y+19, y+16)$                                              |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t} v_{14}^{2.5} = (y+7, y+1, y+28, y+23, y+12)$                                                            |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_{15}^{2.5} = (y+24)$                                                                                    |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_0^3 = (y, y + 16)$                                                                                      |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_1^3 = (y+1)$                                                                                            |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_3^3 = (y+12)$                                                                                           |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_4^3 = (y, y + 16)$                                                                                      |              |
| 41.73                                        | $\Delta^t v_7^3 = (y, y + 12)$                                                                                      | 1.0          |
| $\Delta^t V^3$ :                             | $\Delta^t v_8^3 = (y+8, y, y+24, y+16)$                                                                             | 16           |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_9^3 = (y+1)$                                                                                            |              |
|                                              | $ \Delta^t v_{11}^3 = (y)  \Delta^t v_{12}^3 = (y+8, y+24) $                                                        |              |
|                                              | $\Delta v_{12} = (y+8, y+24)$ $\Delta^t v_{13}^3 = (y+1, y+17)$                                                     |              |
|                                              | $\Delta v_{13} = (y+1, y+1t)$ $\Delta^t v_{15}^3 = (y)$                                                             |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_1^{3.5} = (y+1)$                                                                                        |              |
| $\Delta^t V^{3.5}$ :                         | $\Delta^t v_{11}^{3.5} = (y)$                                                                                       | 3            |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_{12}^{3.5} = (y, y + 16)$                                                                               |              |
| $\Delta^t V^4$ :                             | $\Delta^t v_1^4 = (y)$                                                                                              | 1            |
| $\Delta^t V^{4.5} \cdots \Delta^t V^{5.5}$ : | $ \phi $                                                                                                            | 2 (2 fixed)  |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_1^6 = (y)$                                                                                              |              |
| $\Delta^t V^6$ :                             | $\Delta^t v_6^6 = (y+17)$                                                                                           | 30 (29 fixed |
| <b>△</b> <i>v</i> .                          | $\Delta^t v_{11}^6 = (y+24)$                                                                                        | 00 (25 fixed |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_{12}^6 = (y+24)$                                                                                        |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_0^{6.5} = (y, y + 28)$                                                                                  |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_1^{6.5} = (y+4, y)$                                                                                     |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_2^{6.5} = (y+5, y+21, y+17)$                                                                            |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_3^{6.5} = (y+12)$                                                                                       |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t} v_{4}^{6.5} = (y+1, y+25, y+21, y+17, y+13)$                                                            |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t} v_{5}^{6.5} = (y+9, y+1, y+29, y+21, y+17)$                                                             |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t} v_{6}^{6.5} = (y+6, y+2, y+30, y+26, y+22, y+18, y+14)$<br>$\Delta^{t} v_{7}^{6.5} = (y+5, y+29, y+17)$ |              |
| $\Delta^t V^{6.5}$ :                         | $\Delta^{t} v_{8}^{6.5} = (y+8, y, y+24, y+20)$                                                                     | -            |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_8^{6.5} = (y+8, y+24, y+20)$ $\Delta^t v_9^{6.5} = (y+8, y+28, y+24, y+16)$                             |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t}v_{10}^{6.5} = (y+9, y+1, y+29, y+25, y+13)$                                                             |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t} v_{11}^{6.5} = (y+4, y+24)$                                                                             |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_{12}^{6.5} = (y, y + 24, y + 20)$                                                                       |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^t v_{13}^{6.5} = (y+8, y+28, y+24)$                                                                         |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t}v_{14}^{6.5} = (y+9, y+29, y+25, y+13)$                                                                  |              |
|                                              | $\Delta^{t}v_{15}^{6.5} = (y+4)$                                                                                    |              |
|                                              | andition $v_2^{2.5}[u+3] = \neg v_4^{2.5}[u+3]$ in $\Lambda^t V^3 \to \Lambda^t V^{2.5}$ can be eliminated          | 1            |

<sup>\*:</sup> If y = 28, the condition  $v_3^{2.5}[y+3] = \neg v_4^{2.5}[y+3]$  in  $\Delta^t V^3 \to \Delta^t V^{2.5}$  can be eliminated.

{15}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-15-0"></span>B 6.5-Round Examples For BLAKE and BLAKE2

The main difference between BLAKE-256 and BLAKE2s (BLAKE-512 and BLAKE2b) is at ∆tv 3.5 1 , where ∆tv 3.5 <sup>1</sup> = (29) for BLAKE-2s (∆tv 3.5 <sup>1</sup> = (10) for BLAKE-2b) and φ for BLAKE-256 (BLAKE-512). We specifically emphasize this part with bold dark format.

Table 12. Example for 6.5-round BLAKE-256 with y = 28 ∈ X<sup>256</sup> T X2s.

| ∆M         |                      |                                  |                                                                                        | ∆bm11<br>= (31), ∆tm5            | = (28)                                      |                       |                                                        |                       |
|------------|----------------------|----------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
|            |                      | 0x932a5d7f 0xa2625330 0x46a9466f |                                                                                        |                                  | 0xae3052a3 0xbf9a6338 0xd4167790 0x7bf0ef5e |                       |                                                        | 0x4ef572ba            |
| aM         |                      |                                  | 0x308dc96d 0x23b415c3 0x6fb64798 0xa75b42e8 0x3cb6d30e 0xb56003b4 0x7a4db777 0x715b79a |                                  |                                             |                       |                                                        |                       |
|            |                      | 0x932a5d7f 0xa2625330 0x46a9466f |                                                                                        |                                  | 0xae3052a3 0xbf9a6338 0xd4167790 0x7bf0ef5e |                       |                                                        | 0x4ef572ba            |
| bM         |                      |                                  | 0x308dc96d 0x23b415c3 0x6fb64798 0x275b42e8 0x3cb6d30e 0xb56003b4 0x7a4db777 0x715b79a |                                  |                                             |                       |                                                        |                       |
|            |                      | 0x932a5d7f 0xa2625330 0x46a9466f |                                                                                        |                                  | 0xae3052a3 0xbf9a6338 0xc4167790            |                       | 0x7bf0ef5e                                             | 0x4ef572ba            |
| cM         |                      |                                  | 0x308dc96d 0x23b415c3 0x6fb64798 0xa75b42e8 0x3cb6d30e 0xb56003b4 0x7a4db777 0x715b79a |                                  |                                             |                       |                                                        |                       |
|            |                      | 0x932a5d7f 0xa2625330 0x46a9466f |                                                                                        |                                  | 0xae3052a3 0xbf9a6338 0xc4167790            |                       | 0x7bf0ef5e                                             | 0x4ef572ba            |
| dM         |                      |                                  | 0x308dc96d 0x23b415c3 0x6fb64798 0x275b42e8 0x3cb6d30e 0xb56003b4 0x7a4db777 0x715b79a |                                  |                                             |                       |                                                        |                       |
| ∆tV<br>3.5 |                      |                                  | ∆tv<br>3.5<br>1                                                                        | = φ, ∆t<br>3.5<br>v              | 11 = (28), ∆t<br>3.5<br>v                   | 12 = (28, 2)          |                                                        |                       |
| 3.5<br>aV  | 0x7ce3001a           | 0x5f257eb                        | 0x7cb1b540                                                                             | 0xf5f76e6                        |                                             |                       | 0x62eba0a0 0x8723a3b3 0x3a617d3b 0x616c91a2            |                       |
|            |                      | 0xf2e28cd6 0x2dd8b157 0x888f9a21 |                                                                                        | 0x6074df04                       | 0x370f729f                                  | 0xeecddee4 0x7f42197f |                                                        | 0x36ace0f3            |
| 3.5<br>bV  |                      |                                  | 0xce7042ae 0xc394a0c1 0xbdedbda1 0xbf9d773f                                            |                                  | 0x7fdd9e46                                  | 0xdefe6c9e            |                                                        | 0xf9985a99 0x2e67c857 |
|            | 0x8903f293           |                                  | 0xfc2ed055 0xbcb66021 0x5ac97fd7 0xa42a029b 0x60de7589 0x637162de 0xfd1bd434           |                                  |                                             |                       |                                                        |                       |
| 3.5<br>cV  | 0x7ce3001a           | 0x5f257eb                        | 0x7cb1b540                                                                             | 0xf5f76e6                        |                                             |                       | 0x62eba0a0 0x8723a3b3 0x3a617d3b 0x616c91a2            |                       |
|            |                      | 0xf2e28cd6 0x2dd8b157 0x888f9a21 |                                                                                        | 0x7074df04                       | 0x270f629f                                  | 0xeecddee4 0x7f42197f |                                                        | 0x36ace0f3            |
| 3.5<br>dV  |                      |                                  | 0xce7042ae 0xc394a0c1 0xbdedbda1 0xbf9d773f                                            |                                  | 0x7fdd9e46                                  | 0xdefe6c9e            |                                                        | 0xf9985a99 0x2e67c857 |
|            | 0x8903f293           |                                  | 0xfc2ed055 0xbcb66021 0x4ac97fd7 0xb42a129b 0x60de7589 0x637162de 0xfd1bd434           |                                  |                                             |                       |                                                        |                       |
| ∆bV<br>10  |                      | ∆b                               | 10<br>= (31), ∆b<br>v<br>0                                                             | 10<br>= (16), ∆b<br>v<br>5       | 10 = (23), ∆b<br>10<br>v                    | 10<br>v<br>15 = (23)  |                                                        |                       |
| 10<br>aV   |                      | 0x9920f4d5 0x7d8a6621 0xc7139615 |                                                                                        |                                  | 0x205a3fce 0x4ded77e1 0x1ed1c43f            |                       | 0x6e8efedc                                             | 0xf6f4fe72            |
|            |                      | 0x6e17623b 0x4cd8bea2            | 0xfe2149af                                                                             |                                  |                                             |                       | 0xd2f8e09c 0x53b6139c 0x3972162e 0xd4f82167 0x4d1b2a46 |                       |
| 10<br>bV   |                      | 0x1920f4d5 0x7d8a6621 0xc7139615 |                                                                                        |                                  | 0x205a3fce 0x4ded77e1 0x1ed0c43f            |                       | 0x6e8efedc                                             | 0xf6f4fe72            |
|            |                      | 0x6e17623b 0x4cd8bea2            | 0xfea149af                                                                             |                                  |                                             |                       | 0xd2f8e09c 0x53b6139c 0x3972162e 0xd4f82167 0x4d9b2a46 |                       |
| 10<br>cV   | 0x5a870d65 0x8d12db5 |                                  |                                                                                        | 0x537127c9 0xabdb13a9 0xcaf27105 |                                             |                       | 0x17ef5f49 0x66721638 0x8f333fbf                       |                       |
|            |                      | 0xccdc1196 0x3d9aaba6 0x84ee030c |                                                                                        | 0xda86539                        |                                             |                       | 0x976348e3 0xfde7c240 0x1df99dc8 0x568a818c            |                       |
| 10         | 0xda870d65 0x8d12db5 |                                  |                                                                                        | 0x537127c9 0xabdb13a9 0xcaf27105 |                                             |                       | 0x17ee5f49 0x66721638 0x8f333fbf                       |                       |
| dV         |                      | 0xccdc1196 0x3d9aaba6 0x846e030c |                                                                                        | 0xda86539                        |                                             |                       | 0x976348e3 0xfde7c240 0x1df99dc8 0x560a818c            |                       |

{16}------------------------------------------------

Table 13. Example for 6.5-round BLAKE2s with y = 28 ∈ X<sup>256</sup> T X2s.

| ∆M         |                       |                                  |                                                                                         | ∆bm11                      | = (31), ∆tm5<br>= (28)                     |                      |                                             |                       |
|------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
|            |                       |                                  | 0xce9f1cc6 0x7f3a9b64 0x9e9ddc55 0x4553fa8c 0xe2f4ad99 0x33a0533a 0x8b1d785c 0xc7f56492 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
| aM         |                       |                                  | 0xe5b2b205 0xd44f69a1 0x2d83e500 0x18b03f68 0x13d0c628 0x15fce9f2                       |                            |                                            |                      |                                             | 0x9108f878 0xc477ca04 |
|            |                       |                                  | 0xce9f1cc6 0x7f3a9b64 0x9e9ddc55 0x4553fa8c 0xe2f4ad99 0x33a0533a 0x8b1d785c 0xc7f56492 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
| bM         |                       |                                  | 0xe5b2b205 0xd44f69a1 0x2d83e500 0x98b03f68 0x13d0c628 0x15fce9f2                       |                            |                                            |                      |                                             | 0x9108f878 0xc477ca04 |
|            |                       |                                  | 0xce9f1cc6 0x7f3a9b64 0x9e9ddc55 0x4553fa8c 0xe2f4ad99 0x23a0533a 0x8b1d785c 0xc7f56492 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
| cM         |                       |                                  | 0xe5b2b205 0xd44f69a1 0x2d83e500 0x18b03f68 0x13d0c628 0x15fce9f2                       |                            |                                            |                      |                                             | 0x9108f878 0xc477ca04 |
|            |                       |                                  | 0xce9f1cc6 0x7f3a9b64 0x9e9ddc55 0x4553fa8c 0xe2f4ad99 0x23a0533a 0x8b1d785c 0xc7f56492 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
| dM         |                       |                                  | 0xe5b2b205 0xd44f69a1 0x2d83e500 0x98b03f68 0x13d0c628 0x15fce9f2                       |                            |                                            |                      |                                             | 0x9108f878 0xc477ca04 |
| ∆tV<br>3.5 |                       |                                  | ∆tv<br>3.5<br>1                                                                         | = (29), ∆t<br>3.5<br>v     | 11 = (28), ∆t<br>v                         | 3.5<br>12 = (28, 2)  |                                             |                       |
| 3.5        |                       |                                  | 0x71177c4a 0x456e63aa 0x63bc0484 0xe348f6a9                                             |                            |                                            |                      | 0xfa5c62fe 0x1229c0a3 0x12ea25d0 0xd7a6a55f |                       |
| aV         | 0x3ca79134 0x6ccc6e48 |                                  | 0x2bd29e5                                                                               | 0xc386b1                   | 0x86f12557 0x414c79f1                      |                      | 0x3fb6c33                                   | 0x4baef1a0            |
| 3.5<br>bV  |                       |                                  | 0xaae6286d 0x1af8dcfe 0x70a74337 0xa293966a 0xe35d9b23 0xe74273b3 0xfb967985 0xc16500a7 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
|            |                       |                                  | 0x57a589c8 0x5edbf5ae 0x66de7b25 0x15c8f5ff                                             |                            |                                            |                      | 0xd730836 0x357d6100 0x3ae77969 0x54a834da  |                       |
| 3.5<br>cV  |                       |                                  | 0x71177c4a 0x656e63aa 0x63bc0484 0xe348f6a9                                             |                            |                                            |                      | 0xfa5c62fe 0x1229c0a3 0x12ea25d0 0xd7a6a55f |                       |
|            | 0x3ca79134 0x6ccc6e48 |                                  |                                                                                         |                            | 0x2bd29e5 0x10c386b1 0x96f13557 0x414c79f1 |                      | 0x3fb6c33                                   | 0x4baef1a0            |
| 3.5<br>dV  |                       |                                  | 0xaae6286d 0x3af8dcfe 0x70a74337 0xa293966a 0xe35d9b23 0xe74273b3 0xfb967985 0xc16500a7 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
|            |                       | 0x57a589c8 0x5edbf5ae 0x66de7b25 |                                                                                         | 0x5c8f5ff                  |                                            |                      | 0x1d731836 0x357d6100 0x3ae77969 0x54a834da |                       |
| ∆bV<br>10  |                       | ∆b<br>v                          | 10<br>= (31), ∆b<br>0                                                                   | 10<br>= (16), ∆b<br>v<br>5 | 10 = (23), ∆b<br>10<br>v                   | 10<br>v<br>15 = (23) |                                             |                       |
| 10<br>aV   |                       |                                  | 0x945cf52e 0x422107ab 0x3a682330 0x2f8bd4f1                                             |                            | 0xeead389                                  |                      | 0x21e907ec 0x17138a07 0xae021462            |                       |
|            |                       |                                  | 0x229a3e13 0x3c623c2c 0x64327d4a 0xf1d0e09a 0x5df5abad 0x1be8464a 0x7890983a 0x85288868 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
| 10<br>bV   |                       |                                  | 0x145cf52e 0x422107ab 0x3a682330 0x2f8bd4f1                                             |                            | 0xeead389                                  |                      | 0x21e807ec 0x17138a07 0xae021462            |                       |
|            |                       |                                  | 0x229a3e13 0x3c623c2c 0x64b27d4a 0xf1d0e09a 0x5df5abad 0x1be8464a 0x7890983a 0x85a88868 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
| 10<br>cV   |                       |                                  | 0xc136da56 0xe91ba476 0xfa9ad265 0x6b4d2f9e 0x68ef06c8 0x9ab4757a 0xe63456e0 0x8818e9d4 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
|            |                       |                                  | 0x5da1784c 0x57ecd14b 0xcb0788b8 0xf3148edf 0xa19d7f24 0xf17b5303 0x9ec70b70 0x2f763872 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
| 10<br>dV   |                       |                                  | 0x4136da56 0xe91ba476 0xfa9ad265 0x6b4d2f9e 0x68ef06c8 0x9ab5757a 0xe63456e0 0x8818e9d4 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |
|            |                       |                                  | 0x5da1784c 0x57ecd14b 0xcb8788b8 0xf3148edf 0xa19d7f24 0xf17b5303 0x9ec70b70 0x2ff63872 |                            |                                            |                      |                                             |                       |

{17}------------------------------------------------

Table 14. Example for 6.5-round BLAKE-512 with y = 9 ∈ X<sup>512</sup> T X2b.

| ∆M         |                                                                                    | ∆bm11                                                                                                                | = (63), ∆tm5<br>= (9)                 |                                                          |  |  |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|--|--|
|            |                                                                                    | 0x9c1860c444a6a9f4 0xc95a712fd5a29b72 0x6e5c6811448b300f                                                             |                                       | 0x5c0af45531e396d3                                       |  |  |
| aM         | 0x679dee5280c15ad0                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x329f5347ccb9bf64 0x297828d3ec89e9d0 | 0xa55ffc029ea78609                                       |  |  |
|            | 0xef01f63ec485f87d                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x86560936e36d9dff 0xfd9674bb724d62e0 | 0x9c03f6f64a96659f                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xe3666bd816053d27 0xe4669665a4a0a440 0x1cbf0c93a121eb09 0x65a6a90ac809c019                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x9c1860c444a6a9f4 0xc95a712fd5a29b72 0x6e5c6811448b300f                                                             |                                       | 0x5c0af45531e396d3                                       |  |  |
| bM         | 0x679dee5280c15ad0                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x329f5347ccb9bf64 0x297828d3ec89e9d0 | 0xa55ffc029ea78609                                       |  |  |
|            | 0xef01f63ec485f87d                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x86560936e36d9dff 0xfd9674bb724d62e0 | 0x1c03f6f64a96659f                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xe3666bd816053d27 0xe4669665a4a0a440 0x1cbf0c93a121eb09 0x65a6a90ac809c019                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
| cM         |                                                                                    | 0x9c1860c444a6a9f4 0xc95a712fd5a29b72 0x6e5c6811448b300f                                                             |                                       | 0x5c0af45531e396d3                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x679dee5280c15ad0 0x329f5347ccb9bd64 0x297828d3ec89e9d0                                                             |                                       | 0xa55ffc029ea78609                                       |  |  |
|            | 0xef01f63ec485f87d                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x86560936e36d9dff 0xfd9674bb724d62e0 | 0x9c03f6f64a96659f                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xe3666bd816053d27 0xe4669665a4a0a440 0x1cbf0c93a121eb09 0x65a6a90ac809c019                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x9c1860c444a6a9f4 0xc95a712fd5a29b72 0x6e5c6811448b300f                                                             |                                       | 0x5c0af45531e396d3                                       |  |  |
| dM         |                                                                                    | 0x679dee5280c15ad0 0x329f5347ccb9bd64 0x297828d3ec89e9d0                                                             |                                       | 0xa55ffc029ea78609                                       |  |  |
|            | 0xef01f63ec485f87d                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x86560936e36d9dff 0xfd9674bb724d62e0 | 0x1c03f6f64a96659f                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xe3666bd816053d27 0xe4669665a4a0a440 0x1cbf0c93a121eb09 0x65a6a90ac809c019                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
| ∆tV<br>3.5 | ∆tv<br>3.5<br>= φ, ∆t<br>11 = (9), ∆t<br>3.5<br>3.5<br>v<br>v<br>12 = (41, 9)<br>1 |                                                                                                                      |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xc87af7255a6ec986 0xc59be5b07a4418d7 0x5295eb179fee042c 0x4f87d569d171c685                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xc1c24f85f094b263 0xbc711b20878eb4ea                                                                                | 0x1cda016fcf08ee93                    | 0x878f439bd1398fec                                       |  |  |
| 3.5<br>aV  | 0x982d7a384b8549bb 0x29cd6958f1a234c3                                              |                                                                                                                      | 0xb81579ed9e3eff45                    | 0xbfba600ee495e360                                       |  |  |
|            | 0x4d5e10f24eba6506                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x4f8a20a0c7164ef8 0x4156d917e0e33e7b | 0x8f204cb6dc806747                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x57926274c228f656 0x5ac46fa843cda867 0x936f1f621381dad4 0xbd0f73ec836d47bc                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xbac8918094537e74 0x1edec058ea817875                                                                                |                                       | 0xc5bf41aeadf39382 0x4149082191041e60                    |  |  |
| 3.5<br>bV  |                                                                                    | 0x9fd575b7fe10ace3 0x8fed3642acc17d51 0x1ded33ae6ee468ba                                                             |                                       | 0x5365299759c0a42                                        |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x89f06ef09e1612ee 0xe597ede91683a2d8 0x389825cb39587e4f                                                             |                                       | 0xff48c413164455c3                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xc87af7255a6ec986 0xc59be5b07a4418d7 0x5295eb179fee042c 0x4f87d569d171c685                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xc1c24f85f094b263 0xbc711b20878eb4ea                                                                                | 0x1cda016fcf08ee93                    | 0x878f439bd1398fec                                       |  |  |
| 3.5<br>cV  | 0x982d7a384b8549bb 0x29cd6958f1a234c3                                              |                                                                                                                      | 0xb81579ed9e3eff45                    | 0xbfba600ee495e160                                       |  |  |
|            | 0x4d5e12f24eba6706                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x4f8a20a0c7164ef8 0x4156d917e0e33e7b | 0x8f204cb6dc806747                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x57926274c228f656 0x5ac46fa843cda867 0x936f1f621381dad4 0xbd0f73ec836d47bc                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xbac8918094537e74 0x1edec058ea817875                                                                                |                                       | 0xc5bf41aeadf39382 0x4149082191041e60                    |  |  |
| 3.5<br>dV  |                                                                                    | 0x9fd575b7fe10ace3 0x8fed3642acc17d51 0x1ded33ae6ee468ba                                                             |                                       | 0x5365299759c0842                                        |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x89f06cf09e1610ee 0xe597ede91683a2d8 0x389825cb39587e4f                                                             |                                       | 0xff48c413164455c3                                       |  |  |
| ∆bV<br>10  | ∆b<br>10<br>v<br>0                                                                 | = (63), ∆b<br>10<br>= (36), ∆b<br>v<br>5                                                                             | 10 = (47), ∆b<br>10<br>10<br>v<br>v   | 15 = (47)                                                |  |  |
|            | 0x1b404ab31fbe9343                                                                 |                                                                                                                      |                                       | 0xc01ae4355f49855f 0xf52deb99e6d25dee 0xba1e74d813d9e09c |  |  |
| 10         | 0x1d4142ceee078181                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x8c7261a65899559 0x780312586191c134  | 0x86c7c29f8161a9ac                                       |  |  |
| aV         | 0x77f4ec97a373e3dd                                                                 | 0x7068ac849086f0c3                                                                                                   |                                       | 0xfc3c0163cdc3f7b9 0x52d68b2940599cfa                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x59ad1c82831be8f7 0x74d99e11568eb396 0x3552275c6ddcf7a3 0x8dfe0979b5e83dbd                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            | 0x9b404ab31fbe9343                                                                 |                                                                                                                      |                                       | 0xc01ae4355f49855f 0xf52deb99e6d25dee 0xba1e74d813d9e09c |  |  |
| 10         | 0x1d4142ceee078181                                                                 |                                                                                                                      | 0x8c7260a65899559 0x780312586191c134  | 0x86c7c29f8161a9ac                                       |  |  |
| bV         | 0x77f4ec97a373e3dd                                                                 | 0x7068ac849086f0c3                                                                                                   |                                       | 0xfc3c8163cdc3f7b9 0x52d68b2940599cfa                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x59ad1c82831be8f7 0x74d99e11568eb396 0x3552275c6ddcf7a3 0x8dfe8979b5e83dbd                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xcc0a78ca6c133737 0xa6a12a75a2ab0a78                                                                                | 0xaaff3e032bf0964f                    | 0x6a833f52c06326f8                                       |  |  |
| 10<br>cV   |                                                                                    | 0x1571fbe8468d6869 0x224b394014f172d8 0x72a0866c8eb1dfcc 0x4af2b98060eea9bb                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xe7f5b1b201006785 0xa57c9190f805d201                                                                                |                                       | 0xdea0ecffe0219e24 0xbbec25c771762bfb                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xd312a8ab8e4df740 0xd9a366032739ede2 0xb8d5bfa962e8d684 0xb122b4542c543d9d                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
| 10<br>dV   |                                                                                    | 0x4c0a78ca6c133737 0xa6a12a75a2ab0a78                                                                                | 0xaaff3e032bf0964f                    | 0x6a833f52c06326f8                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0x1571fbe8468d6869 0x224b395014f172d8 0x72a0866c8eb1dfcc 0x4af2b98060eea9bb                                          |                                       |                                                          |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    | 0xe7f5b1b201006785 0xa57c9190f805d201<br>0xd312a8ab8e4df740 0xd9a366032739ede2 0xb8d5bfa962e8d684 0xb12234542c543d9d |                                       | 0xdea06cffe0219e24 0xbbec25c771762bfb                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                    |                                                                                                                      |                                       |                                                          |  |  |

{18}------------------------------------------------

Table 15. Example for 6.5-round BLAKE2b with y = 9 ∈ X<sup>512</sup> T X2b.

| ∆M         |                                                                                       | ∆bm11                                                                       | = (63), ∆tm5<br>= (9)                 |                                       |  |  |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|--|--|
|            | 0x3cec6965bf357a5                                                                     | 0x3efa6687e114e70d                                                          |                                       | 0x6fe9d72277e832e4 0x60574e830fad0b27 |  |  |
| aM         |                                                                                       | 0x1bad3b4b1257079e 0x43b8e8ebf1bc4557 0xc553a639b52984b0 0x95bd9c03c94695e5 |                                       |                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xc4e9f58d840c74c9 0x2186128d765d51b0                                       |                                       | 0x10bc4fee175e6c82 0x18ddcb4d4ac938ee |  |  |
|            | 0x5cf2d8b6cf1ea3ce                                                                    | 0x3ec5aa659dacedf5                                                          |                                       | 0xadf91c482e6b4506 0xa34876d149007c7b |  |  |
|            | 0x3cec6965bf357a5                                                                     | 0x3efa6687e114e70d                                                          |                                       | 0x6fe9d72277e832e4 0x60574e830fad0b27 |  |  |
| bM         |                                                                                       | 0x1bad3b4b1257079e 0x43b8e8ebf1bc4557 0xc553a639b52984b0 0x95bd9c03c94695e5 |                                       |                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xc4e9f58d840c74c9 0x2186128d765d51b0                                       |                                       | 0x10bc4fee175e6c82 0x98ddcb4d4ac938ee |  |  |
|            | 0x5cf2d8b6cf1ea3ce                                                                    | 0x3ec5aa659dacedf5                                                          |                                       | 0xadf91c482e6b4506 0xa34876d149007c7b |  |  |
| cM         | 0x3cec6965bf357a5                                                                     | 0x3efa6687e114e70d                                                          |                                       | 0x6fe9d72277e832e4 0x60574e830fad0b27 |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x1bad3b4b1257079e 0x43b8e8ebf1bc4757 0xc553a639b52984b0 0x95bd9c03c94695e5 |                                       |                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xc4e9f58d840c74c9 0x2186128d765d51b0                                       |                                       | 0x10bc4fee175e6c82 0x18ddcb4d4ac938ee |  |  |
|            | 0x5cf2d8b6cf1ea3ce                                                                    | 0x3ec5aa659dacedf5                                                          |                                       | 0xadf91c482e6b4506 0xa34876d149007c7b |  |  |
| dM         | 0x3cec6965bf357a5                                                                     | 0x3efa6687e114e70d                                                          |                                       | 0x6fe9d72277e832e4 0x60574e830fad0b27 |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x1bad3b4b1257079e 0x43b8e8ebf1bc4757 0xc553a639b52984b0 0x95bd9c03c94695e5 |                                       |                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xc4e9f58d840c74c9 0x2186128d765d51b0                                       |                                       | 0x10bc4fee175e6c82 0x98ddcb4d4ac938ee |  |  |
|            | 0x5cf2d8b6cf1ea3ce                                                                    | 0x3ec5aa659dacedf5                                                          |                                       | 0xadf91c482e6b4506 0xa34876d149007c7b |  |  |
| ∆tV<br>3.5 | ∆tv<br>3.5<br>= (10), ∆t<br>11 = (9), ∆t<br>3.5<br>3.5<br>v<br>v<br>12 = (41, 9)<br>1 |                                                                             |                                       |                                       |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xa8f431bca7166664 0x2bce47208c2b479d                                       |                                       | 0x2554f082eb89d530 0x12b06bc7f71ebe12 |  |  |
|            | 0x5d733d5fa41457fc                                                                    | 0xae2b3d68d8adfe2f                                                          | 0xe03c7fa88285b93d                    | 0xe134f22af656a9d9                    |  |  |
| 3.5<br>aV  |                                                                                       | 0x8bcd47a74a5e35a2 0x21098bd0acfbc078 0x9d0ddd6c2403d2ab 0xf0dbb0c6a9a392c5 |                                       |                                       |  |  |
|            | 0xd72aa227f3c2a651                                                                    | 0x406e07f8eec1929f                                                          | 0x863da54a0653fe1f                    | 0xefb750af7de2c392                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x63b1930b9a252aff 0xd754470ae2a5de96                                       |                                       | 0x1b39d8f987ec3762 0x201afad51a642cb1 |  |  |
|            | 0x1d5c8e5fb50c1c68                                                                    |                                                                             | 0x709103f9ba538f43 0xb847dad7a1bf8a56 | 0xa59f9b63902edb4                     |  |  |
| 3.5<br>bV  | 0x40d96db5d9d3b546 0x332aed26d86aceaa                                                 |                                                                             |                                       | 0x424eaab611c9c6f 0x802b683db9ac54b9  |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x110cd82fdac384dd 0xa93fe8a10201b57b 0x49eed3d94b17685a                    |                                       | 0xcdf2a00fd5300651                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xa8f431bca7166664 0x2bce47208c2b439d                                       |                                       | 0x2554f082eb89d530 0x12b06bc7f71ebe12 |  |  |
| 3.5<br>cV  | 0x5d733d5fa41457fc                                                                    | 0xae2b3d68d8adfe2f                                                          | 0xe03c7fa88285b93d                    | 0xe134f22af656a9d9                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x8bcd47a74a5e35a2 0x21098bd0acfbc078 0x9d0ddd6c2403d2ab 0xf0dbb0c6a9a390c5 |                                       |                                       |  |  |
|            | 0xd72aa027f3c2a451                                                                    | 0x406e07f8eec1929f                                                          | 0x863da54a0653fe1f                    | 0xefb750af7de2c392                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x63b1930b9a252aff 0xd754470ae2a5da96                                       |                                       | 0x1b39d8f987ec3762 0x201afad51a642cb1 |  |  |
|            | 0x1d5c8e5fb50c1c68                                                                    |                                                                             | 0x709103f9ba538f43 0xb847dad7a1bf8a56 | 0xa59f9b63902edb4                     |  |  |
| 3.5<br>dV  | 0x40d96db5d9d3b546 0x332aed26d86aceaa                                                 |                                                                             |                                       | 0x424eaab611c9c6f 0x802b683db9ac56b9  |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x110cda2fdac386dd 0xa93fe8a10201b57b 0x49eed3d94b17685a                    |                                       | 0xcdf2a00fd5300651                    |  |  |
| ∆bV<br>10  | ∆b<br>10<br>v<br>0                                                                    | = (63), ∆b<br>10<br>= (48), ∆b<br>v<br>5                                    | 10 = (47), ∆b<br>10<br>10<br>v<br>v   | 15 = (47)                             |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x96ace3d164600933 0x6785c14493444a3d                                       |                                       | 0xadc3b5f6dbc8c992 0xada06d115f42653a |  |  |
|            | 0xcb06b797a6152dbe                                                                    | 0xf701f3e0f76be4cb                                                          |                                       | 0xf4baf3238d75bdb6 0xb71965677688de57 |  |  |
| 10<br>aV   | 0xaa494db2c0d12db8                                                                    | 0x10ab8d9652485fcf                                                          | 0xb97f5a3ef869239f                    | 0x560aff2ec6a0d95f                    |  |  |
|            | 0x1597013f79b484d1                                                                    | 0x182beacffdc6ec05                                                          | 0x6802644a544f6271                    | 0x59ac761a17acecca                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x16ace3d164600933 0x6785c14493444a3d                                       |                                       | 0xadc3b5f6dbc8c992 0xada06d115f42653a |  |  |
|            | 0xcb06b797a6152dbe                                                                    | 0xf700f3e0f76be4cb                                                          |                                       | 0xf4baf3238d75bdb6 0xb71965677688de57 |  |  |
| 10<br>bV   | 0xaa494db2c0d12db8                                                                    | 0x10ab8d9652485fcf                                                          | 0xb97fda3ef869239f                    | 0x560aff2ec6a0d95f                    |  |  |
|            | 0x1597013f79b484d1                                                                    | 0x182beacffdc6ec05                                                          | 0x6802644a544f6271                    | 0x59acf61a17acecca                    |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xe8d4f6a3aa68e9d6 0x1ba5272a94ed608d 0x51b3a429d5ee6873 0x50af4c1bb7b31dd2 |                                       |                                       |  |  |
| 10<br>cV   | 0x738835de6bff309d                                                                    | 0xc5fc88e668afef14                                                          |                                       | 0x1671fea856c55b2d 0xd04b446c31b59a1b |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x8f120d94bae51fa1 0x5be58c40a2d2c0a9                                       |                                       | 0xe9c1de5ac5992a67 0xa307fd45e31b7817 |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xbd4864acd0f2e4bc 0x4a8a43605d94a9b4                                       |                                       | 0x16e63ec7c12bc056 0x30e48769ae169de0 |  |  |
| 10<br>dV   |                                                                                       | 0x68d4f6a3aa68e9d6 0x1ba5272a94ed608d 0x51b3a429d5ee6873 0x50af4c1bb7b31dd2 |                                       |                                       |  |  |
|            | 0x738835de6bff309d                                                                    | 0xc5fd88e668afef14                                                          |                                       | 0x1671fea856c55b2d 0xd04b446c31b59a1b |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0x8f120d94bae51fa1 0x5be58c40a2d2c0a9                                       |                                       | 0xe9c15e5ac5992a67 0xa307fd45e31b7817 |  |  |
|            |                                                                                       | 0xbd4864acd0f2e4bc 0x4a8a43605d94a9b4                                       |                                       | 0x16e63ec7c12bc056 0x30e40769ae169de0 |  |  |