

{0}------------------------------------------------

## Analysis of BLAKE2

Jian Guo<sup>1</sup> , Pierre Karpman1,<sup>2</sup> , Ivica Nikoli´c<sup>1</sup> , Lei Wang<sup>1</sup> , and Shuang Wu<sup>1</sup>

<sup>1</sup> Nanyang Technological University, Singapore

<sup>2</sup> Ecole normale sup´erieure de Rennes, France ´

{ntu.guo,pierre.karpman,wushuang83}@gmail.com, {inikolic,Wang.Lei}@ntu.edu.sg

Abstract. We present a thorough security analysis of the hash function family BLAKE2, a recently proposed and already in use tweaked version of the SHA-3 finalist BLAKE. We study how existing attacks on BLAKE apply to BLAKE2 and to what extent the modifications impact the attacks. We design and run two improved searches for (impossible) differential attacks — the outcomes suggest higher number of attacked rounds in the case of impossible differentials (in fact we improve the best results for BLAKE as well), and slightly higher for the differential attacks on the hash/compression function (which gives an insight into the quality of the tweaks). We emphasize the importance of each of the modifications, in particular we show that an improper initialization could lead to collisions and near-collisions for the full-round compression function. We analyze the permutation of the new hash function and give rotational attacks and internal differentials for the whole design. We conclude that the tweaks in BLAKE2 were chosen properly and, despite having weaknesses in the theoretical attack frameworks of permutations and of fully-chosen state input compression functions, the hash function of BLAKE2 has only slightly lower (in terms of attacked rounds) security margin than BLAKE.

Key words: BLAKE2, BLAKE, hash function, rotational cryptanalysis, impossible differential cryptanalysis, differential cryptanalysis, internal differential, iterative differential.

## 1 Introduction

The BLAKE hash function [2], a variant improving from its broken predecessor LAKE [3, 11], was one of the five finalists of the SHA-3 competition [14] that ended in November 2012, with Keccak [9] becoming the new SHA-3 standard. Along with the other finalists, BLAKE is assumed to be a very strong hash function [14]. Even though it was not selected as the winner, it enjoys a large security margin, very good performance in software, and has attracted a considerable amount of cryptanalysis. BLAKE uses addition, rotation, and XOR as building blocks for the compression function and has an iteration mode based on HAIFA [10]. Thus it supports salt, and uses an expanding to double-pipe internal state which makes meet-in-the-middle attacks unfeasible. The compression function applies only word permutations for the message schedule, thus making it very simple, elegant and more importantly efficient.

BLAKE2 [5, 4, 6] is a new family of hash functions based on BLAKE. Despite being a new design, BLAKE2 has already been adopted by several software packages — for instance, it is implemented in the CyaSSL library, and is supported in the RAR 5.0 archive format [6]. This surprisingly quick adoption of a new hash function is most likely due to the popularity and qualities of its predecessor BLAKE. The main objective of the new BLAKE2 is to provide a number of parameters for use in applications without the need of additional constructions and modes (e.g., it supports parallelism, tree-hashing and prefix-MAC), and also to speed-up even further the hash function to reach a level of compression rate close to MD5 [5]. The designers have achieved this goal by slightly altering the original BLAKE; in particular they have modified the initial setup of the compression function, changed the rotation constants to be optimal for software performance, excluded constants from the round functions, etc. To implement these tweaks only a small change in the code of BLAKE is required.

While the efficiency argument of the new BLAKE2 is undoubtedly correct and can be confirmed by a mere comparison of the speed of software implementations of BLAKE2 and BLAKE (or MD5), the security of the new function is unclear. The designers claim security levels similar to that of BLAKE, due to the similarity of the two designs. However they do not provide a strict analysis. Note that no universal method nor theory exists that can transitively prove the security of a symmetric primitive A obtained by modifying a primitive B, excluding of course trivial modifications such as increasing the number of rounds<sup>1</sup> . Moreover, the fact that BLAKE2 now omits constants in its round function is a major tweak that

<sup>1</sup> On the condition that e.g. slide attacks are prevented by the design.

{1}------------------------------------------------

might lead to exploits, as the rounds now only differ by the order in which they process the message words.

Table 1. Summary of the analysis of BLAKE and BLAKE2.

| Framework <sup>a</sup> | Type                           | # Rounds <sup>b</sup> | Complexity     | Reference      |  |  |
|------------------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------|----------------|--|--|
|                        | impagible differential         | 5                     |                | [1]            |  |  |
| DI AVE OF6 norm        | impossible differential        | 6.5                   |                | this paper, §5 |  |  |
| BLAKE-256 perm.        | differential                   | 6                     | $2^{486}$      | [17]           |  |  |
|                        | boomerang                      | 8                     | $2^{232}$      | [12]           |  |  |
| BLAKE-512 perm.        | impossible differential        | 5°                    |                | [1]            |  |  |
| blake-512 perm.        | impossible differential        | 6.5                   | this paper, §5 |                |  |  |
| BLAKE-256 cf.          | boomerang                      | 7                     | $2^{242}$      | [12]           |  |  |
| BLAKE-250 CI.          | near collision                 | 4                     | $2^{56}$       | [1]            |  |  |
| BLAKE-256              | collision                      | 2.5                   | $2^{112}$      | [22]           |  |  |
| BLAKE-250              | preimage                       | 2.5                   | $2^{241}$      | [22]           |  |  |
| BLAKE-512              | collision                      | 2.5                   | $2^{224}$      | [22]           |  |  |
| DLAKE-512              | preimage                       | 2.5                   | $2^{481}$      | [22]           |  |  |
| BLAKE2s perm.          | impossible differential        | 6.5                   |                | this paper, §5 |  |  |
| blakezs perm.          | rotational                     | 7                     | $2^{511}$      | this paper, §3 |  |  |
|                        | impossible differential        | 6.5                   |                | this paper, §5 |  |  |
| BLAKE2b perm.          | rotational                     | 12                    | $2^{876}$      | this paper, §3 |  |  |
|                        | differential                   | 5.5                   | $2^{928}$      | this paper, §6 |  |  |
| BLAKE2s cf. chosen IV  | collisions                     | 10                    | $2^{64}$       | this paper, §3 |  |  |
| BLAKE2b cf. chosen IV  | partial-collisions             | 12                    | $2^{61}$       | this paper, §4 |  |  |
| DLAKEZD CI. CHOSEII IV | 2 <sup>64</sup> weak preimages | 12                    | 1              | this paper, §4 |  |  |
| BLAKE2b cf.            | differential                   | 4.5                   | $2^{495}$      | this paper, §6 |  |  |
| BLAKE2b                | differential                   | 3.5                   | $2^{480}$      | this paper, §6 |  |  |

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>a</sup> The notations 'perm.' and 'cf.' stand for the permutation and compression function of the associated hash function.

Our Contribution. In this paper we give a thorough security analysis of this new hash function. Our main objective is to find out if the security level of BLAKE2 has dropped due to the tweaks. We try to exploit each tweak separately, as well as in combination with the others, in order to mount attacks on as many rounds as possible. The starting point of our analysis in the framework of permutations and compression function with chosen IV are three promising techniques that can be highly successful against primitives that employ low usage of constants (i.e. no addition of constants to the message words): rotational cryptanalysis [21], internal differentials [23] (more precisely the squeeze attack [15, 16]) and iterative differentials based on rotational trails. We show that in these frameworks, the attacker can penetrate through all 12 rounds of BLAKE2b. Further, we focus on the previous attacks on the original design, in particular the differential and impossible differential attacks [1]. We improve the previous results and approaches and along the way show the impact of the new initialization used in the compression function. We develop more advanced techniques to search for differentials — in particular, we implement a search for the best differential characteristics from a certain subspace which is much larger compared to all the previously analyzed ones. We show that due to the new rotations, the best result is now a 3.5-round differential distinguisher for the hash function of BLAKE2b, while a 4.5-round differential exists for the compression function. In the impossible differential analysis, we are able both to find and

 $<sup>^</sup>b$  The total number of rounds in BLAKE-256, BLAKE-512, BLAKE2s, and BLAKE2b is  $14{,}16{,}10$ , and 12 rounds, respectively.

 $<sup>^{</sup>c}$  The initial analysis claimed a 6-rounds attack, but it was shown to be incorrect.

{2}------------------------------------------------

confirm theoretically probability-one characteristics. In the previously published analysis the search of characteristics was mostly experimental, and in the case of longer characteristics was actually incorrect. Our analysis is valid for BLAKE as well, *i.e.* we improve the best known results for impossible differentials for the original design. We summarize the result of our analysis of BLAKE2 and the best existing attacks on BLAKE in Tbl. 1.

This paper is organized as follows. In § 2, we give a brief description of the BLAKE2 hash function family. In §§ 3, 4, 5, 6, we describe our rotational, fixed points, impossible differential, and differential analyses of BLAKE2, respectively. We conclude in § 7.

#### 2 Description of BLAKE2

As a successor of the BLAKE family, the BLAKE2 hash functions share many similarities with the original design. However differences occur at every level: internal permutation, compression function, and hash function construction. In this section we give a brief specification of BLAKE2 and highlight the differences with BLAKE. We use notations similar to [5], in particular:

- ' $\leftarrow$ ' denotes variable assignment;
- '+' denotes addition in  $\mathbb{Z}_{2^{32}}$  or in  $\mathbb{Z}_{2^{64}}$  (modular addition);
- '-' denotes subtraction in  $\mathbb{Z}_{2^{32}}$  or in  $\mathbb{Z}_{2^{64}}$  (modular subtraction);
- ' $\oplus$ ' denotes addition in  $\mathbb{Z}_2^{32}$  or in  $\mathbb{Z}_2^{64}$  (bitwise exclusive or);
- ' $\ll$  r' denotes rotation of r bits towards the most significant bit;
- ' $\gg$  r' denotes rotation of r bits towards the least significant bit;
- $\gg \tau$  denotes rotation of  $\tau$  bits towards the least significant bit, - if not specified otherwise, numbers written in typewriter font are in base 16, e.g. f is the number 15.

The internal state of the BLAKE2 compression function is composed of 16 words of size 64 bits for BLAKE2b, and 32 bits for BLAKE2s. The compression function takes as input an 8-word chaining value  $h_0, \ldots, h_7$ , 8 constant initialization vectors  $IV_0, \ldots, IV_7$ , a 2-word counter  $t_0t_1$  that counts the number of bytes hashed so far, and two finalization flags  $f_0$  and  $f_1$ . The flag  $f_0$  is set to ff...ff when the current message block is the last, and to 00, 00 otherwise; the  $f_1$  counter plays a similar role in tree-hashing

message block is the last, and to 00...00 otherwise; the  $f_1$  counter plays a similar role in tree-hashing (and is not detailed here). The input to the compression function is initialized as (we follow the notations of the design paper here):

$$\begin{pmatrix} v_0 & v_1 & v_2 & v_3 \\ v_4 & v_5 & v_6 & v_7 \\ v_8 & v_9 & v_{10} & v_{11} \\ v_{12} & v_{13} & v_{14} & v_{15} \end{pmatrix} \leftarrow \begin{pmatrix} h_0 & h_1 & h_2 & h_3 \\ h_4 & h_5 & h_6 & h_7 \\ IV_0 & IV_1 & IV_2 & IV_3 \\ t_0 \oplus IV_4 & t_1 \oplus IV_5 & f_0 \oplus IV_6 & f_1 \oplus IV_7 \end{pmatrix}.$$

The main differences between BLAKE2 and BLAKE at this stage are the removal of the optional salt value, the addition of the finalization flags instead of the repeated counter words, and the fact that the counter now counts a number of bytes rather than bits.

The initial state is then processed by 10 (resp. 12) rounds of a column and diagonal application of the defined below G function for BLAKE2s (resp. BLAKE2b). In comparison, BLAKE-256 and BLAKE-512 functions have 14 and 16 rounds. The G functions take four state words (a,b,c,d) and two message words  $m_i, m_j$  as input. The latter are defined by a position index i of the function: at round r,  $m_i$  is given by  $\sigma_{r \mod 10}(2i)$  and  $m_j$  by  $\sigma_{r \mod 10}(2i+1)$ , where  $\sigma_{r \mod 10}$  is one of the 10 permutations given in Tbl. 3 in Appendix A.

The G function of BLAKE2b G(a, b, c, d) is defined as<sup>2</sup>:

$$1: a \leftarrow a + b + m_i 
2: d \leftarrow (d \oplus a) \gg 32 
3: c \leftarrow c + d 
4: b \leftarrow (b \oplus c) \gg 24$$

$$5: a \leftarrow a + b + m_j 
6: d \leftarrow (d \oplus a) \gg 16 
7: c \leftarrow c + d 
8: b \leftarrow (b \oplus c) \gg 63$$

The G function of BLAKE2s G(a, b, c, d) is defined as:

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> G takes as inputs additionally two message words — we prefer to avoid writing these in order to simplify the formulas where G is used. Whenever the message inputs play a role in the analysis, we will write them down.

{3}------------------------------------------------

```
1: a \leftarrow a + b + m_i 

2: d \leftarrow (d \oplus a) \gg 16 

3: c \leftarrow c + d 

4: b \leftarrow (b \oplus c) \gg 12
5: a \leftarrow a + b + m_j 

6: d \leftarrow (d \oplus a) \gg 8 

7: c \leftarrow c + d 

8: b \leftarrow (b \oplus c) \gg 7
```

The differences between the G functions of BLAKE2 and BLAKE are the omission in BLAKE2 of an ' $\oplus$ ' addition between the message words and round constants in steps 1 and 5, and modified rotation constants for BLAKE2b. We also give the definition of the inverses  $G^{-1}$  of the G functions in the Appendix A.

A column step of BLAKE2 computes

```
G_0(v_0, v_4, v_8, v_{12}) G_1(v_1, v_5, v_9, v_{13}) G_2(v_2, v_6, v_{10}, v_{14}) G_3(v_3, v_7, v_{11}, v_{15})
```

and a diagonal step computes

$$G_4(v_0, v_5, v_{10}, v_{15}) \quad G_5(v_1, v_6, v_{11}, v_{12}) \quad G_6(v_2, v_7, v_8, v_{13}) \quad G_7(v_3, v_4, v_9, v_{14}).$$

Finally, the output of the compression function  $h'_0, \ldots, h'_7$  combines the input chaining value and the final state  $v_0, \ldots, v_{15}$  by computing

```
h'_{0} \leftarrow h_{0} \oplus v_{0} \oplus v_{8} \qquad h'_{4} \leftarrow h_{4} \oplus v_{4} \oplus v_{12}
h'_{1} \leftarrow h_{1} \oplus v_{1} \oplus v_{9} \qquad h'_{5} \leftarrow h_{5} \oplus v_{5} \oplus v_{13}
h'_{2} \leftarrow h_{2} \oplus v_{2} \oplus v_{10} \qquad h'_{6} \leftarrow h_{6} \oplus v_{6} \oplus v_{14}
h'_{3} \leftarrow h_{3} \oplus v_{3} \oplus v_{11} \qquad h'_{7} \leftarrow h_{7} \oplus v_{7} \oplus v_{15}
```

The only difference between BLAKE2 and BLAKE in this step is again the omission of the optional salt value.

The BLAKE2 hash function is defined in a straightforward way from the above compression function. We give a high-level overview of this process here, and refer to [5] for more details.

- 1. A 'parameter block' (described below) is added  $(\oplus)$  with the same initialization vectors used in the compression function, and the result is used as the first input chaining value to the compression function.
- 2. The message is padded with null bytes if and only if necessary to make it a multiple of a block length (i.e. 512 bits for BLAKE2s and 1024 bits for BLAKE2b).
- 3. The compression function is iterated on the padded message, and its (possibly truncated) final output is taken as the hash value.

The 'parameter block' mentioned above encodes various parameters that specify an instance of the BLAKE2 hash function. General parameters are the digest length, the optional key length, an optional salt, and a personalization string. Additional parameters are defined for tree hashing. Again, we refer to [5] for the full specifications. The main differences with BLAKE in this respect is the simplified padding and the inclusion of a parameter block. Some of the optional functionalities of BLAKE (e.g. the salt) have been moved from the compression function to the parameter block.

Current State of Security of BLAKE2. In the submission document, the designers state that BLAKE2 inherits the security level of its predecessor BLAKE-256/512. In particular, they expect that the number of attacked rounds in BLAKE2 and BLAKE should be the same (possibly with slightly different complexities) with regards to the published analysis. For BLAKE the designers single out three attacks that penetrate the most number of rounds:

- 1. The 2.5-round preimage attack for the hash function by Ji and Liangyu [22].
- 2. The 6-round distinguisher for the permutation of BLAKE-256 proposed by Dunkelman and Khovratovich [17].
- 3. The 8-round boomerang distinguisher for the permutation of BLAKE-256, and the 7-round boomerang distinguisher for the compression function of BLAKE-256 by Biryukov et al. [12].

However, it seems the designers have overlooked the fact that the setup of the initial state of BLAKE2, *i.e.* the initialization, gives less degrees of freedom to the attacker and more importantly fixes completely the values of six state words  $v_8, v_9, v_{10}, v_{11}, v_{14}, v_{15}$ . Hence the boomerangs for the compression function of BLAKE cannot be trivially extended to BLAKE2. In particular, as the 3-round characteristic used at the top of the 6-round boomerang of BLAKE has differences in the words of the third row, it cannot be applied to BLAKE2s. After a careful examination of all the characteristics given in [12], and under the assumption that characteristics with similar probabilities can be found in BLAKE2, boomerangs could be launched for 5 rounds (2+3 rounds) of BLAKE2s, and 5.5 rounds (2+3.5) of BLAKE2b.

{4}------------------------------------------------

Our Attack Frameworks. The previous published analysis of BLAKE target the keyed permutation<sup>3</sup>, the compression function, and the hash function of BLAKE. In this paper we show attacks on round-reduced versions of all of these three primitives. We assume a standard generic security level for them, for example the cipher BLAKE2s is a 512-bit block cipher with 512-bit key, thus an exhaustive key recovery attack requires  $2^{512}$  encryptions.

In the hash function framework we assume that the initial state is fixed, i.e.  $v_0, v_1, \ldots, v_{15}$  are some predefined constants. The compression function framework is similar, but this time we allow freedom in  $v_0, v_1, \ldots, v_7, v_{12}, v_{13}$ , while  $v_8, \ldots, v_{11}, v_{14}, v_{15}$  remain fixed (as they correspond to  $IV_0, IV_1, IV_2, IV_3, IV_6, IV_7$ ), i.e. we assume the attacker can control the chaining value and the counters  $t_0, t_1$ . We also analyze the case when the attacker can control the IV — the so called chosen IV model. Finally, in the framework of permutations, we assume we can fully control the plaintext, thus all  $v_i$  can be chosen, however the key (the message) is unknown. The reader should be aware that the importance of the attacks drops as one goes from the framework of hash functions to the one of permutations.

### 3 Rotational Analysis and Internal Differentials

BLAKE2 is an ARX primitive, *i.e.* the only operations used are modular and bitwise addition, as well as bitwise rotations on various amounts. Moreover, due to the absence of constants in the G function (which were present in BLAKE), it is a good target for rotational attacks. Recall that in such attacks, one starts with rotational pairs of inputs  $(x, x \ll r)$ , and checks if the output of the primitive F is also rotational, i.e. if  $F(x) \ll r = F(x \ll r)$ . In [21] it was shown that the probability of a rotational output for ARX primitive (i.e. the probability that the previous expression holds for a random input x) depends only on the number of modular additions used in F.

The function G in BLAKE2 has 6 additions. To maximize the probability we fix the rotation amount to 1, thus the rotational probability of modular addition becomes around  $2^{-1.4}$ . Hence, for the whole G function we obtain  $2^{6\cdot(-1.4)}\approx 2^{-8.4}$ . Experiments show that the actual probability is slightly lower, i.e. around  $2^{-9.1}$ . As one round of BLAKE2 has eight G function, the rotational probability of a round is  $2^{8\cdot(-9.1)}\approx 2^{-73}$ .

The permutation of BLAKE2b has 12 rounds, thus the rotational probability for the whole permutation  $^4$  is  $2^{12\cdot(-73)}=2^{-876}$ . Hence in a related-key framework, where the second key is a rotation by 1 of the first key, we can distinguish the permutation. Similarly, for the 10-round permutation of BLAKE2s we can attack 7 rounds with a complexity slightly faster than the exhaustive search of a 512-bit key. Converting the distinguisher into a key-recovery attacks is possible as well. We can use the knowledge of the plaintext and ciphertext, to recover  $4 \cdot 1.4 \approx 6$  bits at the top and the same amount at the bottom, thus from a rotational pair of plaintext/ciphertext we can reduce the entropy of the key by 12 bits.

Let us try to apply to above distinguisher to the compression function of BLAKE2. Note that the constants  $IV_0, \ldots, IV_3$  used in the initialization are non-rotational <sup>5</sup>. To overcome this issue, we can try to obtain rotational pairs after the first half round of BLAKE2, and use the message freedom of the second half round to probabilistically satisfy the rest of the rotational trail on t rounds. The first half round is composed of four applications of the function G with independent inputs that can be rotational for three of the four arguments. That is, for each input  $IV_i$ , we have to find a pair of triplets  $(a_1, b_1, d_1), (a_2, b_2, d_2)$  such that

$$G(a_1, b_1, IV_i, d_1, m_1, m_2) \ll 1 = G(a_2, b_2, IV_i, d_2, m_1 \ll 1, m_2 \ll 1). \tag{1}$$

In total, we have 8 words of freedom to satisfy a 4-words equation, thus it seems that a solution should exist. Surprisingly, this is not the case for a randomly chosen value of  $IV_i$ . A simple analysis shows that the above problem (1) can be reduced to the problem of finding solution to the equation

$$(X + Y + IV_i) \ll 1 = X \ll 1 + Y \ll 1 + IV_i$$
 (2)

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> Obviously, the keyed permutation is a block cipher. Further we use the terms (keyed) permutation and block cipher interchangeably, when we want to refer to analysis in the secret key model.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> Note that this keyed permutation has a 1024-bit key and 1024-bit state.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> A constant C is rotational (with respect to r), if  $C \ll r = C$ .

{5}------------------------------------------------

Hence, IV <sup>i</sup> needs to be highly structured, i.e. it has to be the sum of a fully rotational word and two rotational errors. Thus we obtain a rather strange fact, that the simplicity of the function G <sup>6</sup> prevents straightforward application of rotational distinguishers. We note that one can try to obtain rotational pairs after the first full round of BLAKE2, but then the problem becomes much more complex, while the message freedom drops.

The absence of constants in the function G can also be used to launch a distinguisher on the permutation of BLAKE2 based on internal differentials introduced by Peyrin [23]. More precisely, we use the 'squeeze attack' variant from Dinur et al., that was recently used to attack Keccak [15]. We note that a similar distinguisher was already applied to the permutations of Salsa and ChaCha [7, 8] — two ciphers that inspired the design of BLAKE.

Let the four columns at the input of the permutation of BLAKE2 be equal, i.e. (v0, v4, v8, v12) = (v1, v5, v8, v13) = (v2, v6, v10, v14) = (v3, v7, v11, v15), and let all the message words (the words of the key) be the same. Then after the column step, all columns remain equal. Moreover, in the diagonal step, the first input is always taken from the top row (with all elements the same), the second from the second row, etc., thus after the diagonal step, all the columns remain identical. Hence, a round of BLAKE2 preserves this property of the state. We can use the above property to launch a distinguishing attack for the permutation of BLAKE2. We need only a single query to the permutation, then for a plaintext composed of four identical columns, we check if the ciphertext has four such columns as well. Thus for a version of the permutation with w-bit words, there are 2<sup>w</sup> keys (one key word is arbitrarily chosen, the rest are equal) for the BLAKE2 permutation that can be distinguished with only one chosen plaintext. If all the inputs to the compression function could be chosen then the above approach could be used to produce collisions using the squeeze attack: 1) fix all the message words to some arbitrary value; 2) compress 22<sup>w</sup> different inputs, with the first column arbitrarily chosen, and the remaining three columns equal to the first. If there is a collision in one of the columns at the output, then the rest of the columns have to collide. As a column has 4w bits, 22<sup>w</sup> trials should be sufficient to produce collisions for the compression function — this is equivalent to 2<sup>128</sup> calls for BLAKE2b, and 2<sup>64</sup> for BLAKE2s. Similarly, it is possible to speed-up the search for preimages of a weak class of digests which are produced from the symmetric states — the size of the class is 22w. Again, the freedom in the input state and the message words is sufficient for the attacker to target digests from this class by only considering symmetric preimages, in time 22w. We would like to emphasize that in BLAKE2 the initialization once again prohibits this type of trivial attacks as IV <sup>0</sup> 6= IV <sup>1</sup> 6= IV <sup>2</sup> 6= IV <sup>3</sup>, thus the above attack is not applicable to the compression/hash function of BLAKE2.

## 4 Fixed Points and Iterative Rotational Differentials for Search of Collisions and Preimages

The approach of § 3 can be enhanced further with the use of fixed points and iterative one-round differential characteristics <sup>7</sup> . Assume P is a fixed point for the round function of BLAKE2b when all the message words are equal. Then, as there are no constants in the function G, and the message permutation for each round produces the same set of message words, P is a fixed point for any number of rounds of BLAKE2b. Further, let ∆ → ∆ be a one-round iterative characteristic with a low hamming weight difference. If for the pair of states (P, P ⊕ ∆) the one round differential holds, i.e. BLAKE2b1 round(P) ⊕ BLAKE2b1 round(P ⊕ ∆) = ∆, then the differential would hold for any number of rounds. Hence at the output we will end up with a low hamming weight difference in the states and thus a partial-collision. To apply this technique to BLAKE2b we have to be able to: 1) find an iterative one-round characteristic with probability 2<sup>−</sup><sup>p</sup> , p < 256, and, 2) find 2<sup>p</sup> fixed points. However, as all the message words are identical, we have only 2<sup>64</sup> different permutations and approximately the same number of fixed points, hence we must have p < 64.

First, let us show how to find fixed points for one round of BLAKE2b. We can accomplish this by finding fixed points for the function G and repeating the same value in all columns of P. In fact, this leads to a fixed point after only one half of the round, which in return results in a fixed point for the

<sup>6</sup> If G were a random function, the solution would exist for any IV <sup>i</sup>.

<sup>7</sup> An attack exploiting fixed points in simplified version of BLAKE (without message permutations and constants) was given in [24] – that analysis is not applicable to unmodified version of BLAKE2.

{6}------------------------------------------------

whole round. Let (a, b, c, d, m1, m2) be the inputs of the function G. We are looking for values such that G(a, b, c, d, m, m) = (a, b, c, d) (note that we need the message words to coincide). From the definition of G (and further reduction), this is equivalent to solving the following system of equations:

$$(-d) \oplus a = d \ggg 16 \tag{3}$$

$$a+b+m+(c\oplus b \ll 1)+m=a \tag{4}$$

$$b \oplus (c - d) = (c \oplus b \lll 1) \ggg 24 \tag{5}$$

$$d \oplus (a+b+m) = (-d) \gg 32 \tag{6}$$

With basic algebraic transformations the system can be reduced to:

$$a = d \gg 16 \oplus (-d) \tag{7}$$

$$b + 2m = -(c \oplus b \lll 1) \tag{8}$$

$$b \oplus (c - d) = (c \oplus b \lll 1) \ggg 24 \tag{9}$$

$$b + m = [(-d) \gg 32 \oplus d] - a \tag{10}$$

Let V = [(−d) ≫ 32 ⊕ d] − a. Then we get:

$$a = d \gg 16 \oplus (-d) \tag{11}$$

$$c = (b - 2V) \oplus b \lll 1 \tag{12}$$

$$b \oplus (c - d) = (c \oplus b \lll 1) \ggg 24 \tag{13}$$

$$m = V - b \tag{14}$$

If in (13) we replace the value of c from (12), we obtain

$$b \oplus [((b-2V) \oplus b \lll 1) - d] = (b-2V) \ggg 24$$
 (15)

Lemma 1. The solution for the equation

$$X \oplus [((X+A) \oplus X \lll 1) + B] = (X+A) \ggg 24$$
 (16)

where X is unknown, and A, B are constant 64-bit words, can be found on average in 2 <sup>25</sup> time.

Proof. The proof is given in the Appendix B.

We can now present the algorithm for solving the system:

- 1. Fix a random value for d. Compute a from (11), and the value of V according to the above formula.
- 2. Compute the value of b from (15).
- 3. Compute the value of c from (12).
- 4. Compute the value of m from (14).

Thus we can find one fixed point with around 2<sup>25</sup> computations. Note that d can take any 64-bit value, thus the number of fixed points is around 2<sup>64</sup>. For each of these inputs, the 12-round compression function of BLAKE2b (with modified IV ) has the form:

$$\begin{pmatrix}
a & a & a & a \\
b & b & b & b \\
c & c & c & c \\
d & d & d & d
\end{pmatrix}
\xrightarrow{12 \text{ rounds}}
\begin{pmatrix}
a & a & a & a \\
b & b & b & b \\
c & c & c & c \\
d & d & d & d
\end{pmatrix}
\xrightarrow{\text{feedforward}}
\begin{pmatrix}
c & c & c & c \\
d & d & d & d
\end{pmatrix}.$$
(17)

Next, let us focus on finding iterative one-round characteristics — a problem that has already been discussed for BLAKE-256 in the work of Dunkelman and Khovratovich [17]. The new rotation constants in BLAKE2b allow to apply their analysis without any significant modifications. However, straightforward use of their one-round characteristic based on two characteristics (with probabilities 2<sup>−</sup><sup>12</sup> , 2 <sup>−</sup><sup>21</sup>) for the function G is impossible. The problem lies in the condition p < 64:

– If we use the two characteristics and take four different values for columns in the state (fixed point) P then the probability of the first half round would be 2<sup>−</sup>2·12−2·<sup>21</sup> = 2<sup>−</sup><sup>66</sup> < 2 −64 .

{7}------------------------------------------------

- If we take only two different column values, then the probability of the first half round is  $2^{-12-21} = 2^{-33}$ , and the same for the second half round. One can reduce the probability of the second half only with a special type of fixed points instead of independent fixed points for each column (each function G) in the first half, one needs to deal with values that somehow depend on each other, but it is not clear if such values exist at all.
- If we take the same value for all four columns, then we get a contradiction from the characteristics in the first half round there is one characteristic while in the second another. No value can satisfy both characteristics as in the first modular addition (a+b+m), we want 4 and 8 to cancel in the first characteristic (thus 4 should produce carries), while we want to stay at 4 in the second (no carries).

Hence we need to find a high probability one-round differential characteristic that can be used in combination with fixed points. We have implemented our own search based on the analysis of the above authors, and found that none of these type of characteristics are compatible — there is no iterative characteristic  $\Delta \to \Delta$  for G, and all two round characteristics  $\Delta_1 \to \Delta_2, \Delta_2 \to \Delta_1$  are incompatible, *i.e.* they do not hold for the same value of the input (and we want the value to be the same as we work with fixed points).

We can nonetheless produce iterative differentials but based on the rotational property of the function G. Assume  $(P_1, P_2)$  is a rotational input pair for G producing the rotational output pair  $(Q_1, Q_2)$ , i.e.  $P_2 = P_1 \ll 1, Q_2 = Q_1 \ll 1$ . If  $P_1$  is a fixed point for G, then for the second pair of input-output we get:  $P_2 = P_1 \ll 1, Q_2 = Q_1 \ll 1 = P_1 \ll 1 = P_2$ , i.e. the second input is also a fixed point. Therefore for these fixed points the iterative differential has the input (as well as the output) difference  $P_1 \oplus P_2 = P_1 \oplus P_1 \ll 1$ . Now recall that we want to minimize the hamming weight of this difference in order to produce partial-collisions on as many bits as possible. In fact from (17) it is clear that we want to minimize only the hamming weight of the difference in c and d. As we work with rotation on 1 to the left, it follows that if the value of c (or d) has zeroes in t most significant bits then  $c \oplus c \ll 1$  has zeroes in at least t-1 most significant bits. This gives a hint of how to choose the fixed point  $P_1$  using the above algorithm for finding fixed points:

- 1. Choose an arbitrary value of d that has zeroes in 27 MSBs.
- 2. Compute the values of a, b, c, d, m using the algorithm.
- 3. Check if c has zeroes in 27 MSBs.
- 4. If not, go to step 1.
- 5. Check if the input  $(a \ll 1, b \ll 1, c \ll 1, d \ll 1, m \ll 1)$  is a fixed points.
- 6. If not, go to step 1.

The correct value of c at step 3 will be found after around  $2^{27}$  different trials of d. As the rotational probability of the G function is  $2^{-9.1}$ , after  $2^{9.1}$  good values of c one can find the second fixed point. Step 1 will be repeated  $2^{27+9.1} \approx 2^{36}$  times, hence we have enough degrees of freedom in d (there are  $2^{64-27} = 2^{37}$  possible values). The total complexity of the algorithm is  $2^{25} \cdot 2^{27} \cdot 2^{9.1} \approx 2^{61}$ . The hamming weight of the differences in both c and d will be at most 26 bits, and hence we can produce partial-collisions<sup>8</sup> on  $8 \cdot 26 = 208$  bits. However this is with chosen IV. That is, we can produce the collisions only when the values of the IV correspond to our discovered values for fixed points. Note as the original IV used in BLAKE2b do not coincide, our approach cannot be applied to the compression function of BLAKE2b. Nonetheless, this shows that the choice of IV is sensitive to certain attacks.

A similar strategy can be applied for search of preimages for a special type of digests with  $h'_0 = h'_1 = h'_2 = h'_3 = H_1$  and  $h_4 = h_5 = h_6 = h_7 = H_2$ . Let us assume that  $(h_0, h_1, H_1, H_2)$  is a fixed point (along with some message word m) for the function G. Then the full 12-rounds compression function of BLAKE2b (with modified IV) can be described as:

$$\begin{pmatrix} h_0 & h_0 & h_0 & h_0 \\ h_1 & h_1 & h_1 & h_1 \\ H_1 & H_1 & H_1 & H_1 \\ H_2 & H_2 & H_2 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{12 \text{ rounds}} \begin{pmatrix} h_0 & h_0 & h_0 & h_0 \\ h_1 & h_1 & h_1 & h_1 \\ H_1 & H_1 & H_1 & H_1 \\ H_2 & H_2 & H_2 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{\text{feedforward}} \begin{pmatrix} H_1 & H_1 & H_1 & H_1 \\ H_2 & H_2 & H_2 & H_2 \end{pmatrix}.$$

Hence, if we can find the corresponding  $h_0, h_1, m$ , we will be able to recover the preimage of the target digest. For this purpose, we use the system (7) - (10):

1. Set  $c = H_1$  and  $d = H_2$ .

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>8</sup> Lately, collisions on some particular bits have been called partial-collisions.

{8}------------------------------------------------

- 2. Compute the value of a from (7).
- 3. Compute the value of b from (9) it is a system of linear equations.
- 4. Compute the value of m<sup>a</sup> from (8), and m<sup>b</sup> from (10).
- 5. If m<sup>a</sup> = m<sup>b</sup> then h<sup>0</sup> = a, h<sup>1</sup> = b, m = m<sup>a</sup> is the preimage.

The condition m<sup>a</sup> = m<sup>b</sup> holds with probability 2−<sup>64</sup> and therefore among all the possible 2<sup>128</sup> digests from the class (recall that |H1| = |H2| = 64), preimage based on a fixed point can be found for 2128−<sup>64</sup> = 2<sup>64</sup> of them with a negligible effort.

## 5 Impossible Differential Analysis

In this section we perform an impossible differential (ID) analysis for the permutation of all members of the BLAKE and BLAKE2 families. A similar analysis was done for the original BLAKE by Aumasson et al. at FSE 2010 [1], where the authors claimed a 5-round ID for BLAKE-256 and a 6-round ID for BLAKE-512. However these IDs were mainly found experimentally, and some of the presented characteristics had probabilities less than 1. Hence the analysis from [1] does not seem to cover more than five rounds for both BLAKE-256 and BLAKE-512.

We carry a similar analysis on the four permutations of BLAKE-256, BLAKE-512, BLAKE2s and BLAKE2b. Note that in contrast to the rotational analysis, the bitwise addition of constants plays no role in these impossible differentials, while the value of the rotation amounts is of importance. Hence the analysis of BLAKE-256 and BLAKE2s is identical as their respective permutations only differ in constant addition. On the other hand, the analysis must be performed independently for BLAKE-512 and BLAKE2b. Our result is a 6.5-round impossible differential for all the four permutations of BLAKE and BLAKE2. As we need to insert differences in the message words, which play the role of the key when the permutations are seen as block ciphers, the analysis is performed in the related-key framework. The IDs are found by using the miss-in-the-middle technique that connects a forward and a backward characteristic with incompatible probability-one differences. The forward characteristic is on 2.5 rounds and it can be extended for an additional half round, while the backward characteristic is on 3.5 rounds. As in the original analysis, our approach heavily relies on the good (from an attacker point of view) properties of the different σ<sup>r</sup> message words permutations, which allow to delay the propagation of differences for 1.5 rounds in both forward and backward directions.

The analysis in this paper is innovative in the way it uses additive differences to cancel a difference in the message word of G <sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with probability one. Besides being an interesting result on the G −1 function itself, this is an important part of extending the ID to more rounds. Moreover, we also formally checked the validity of our probability-one characteristics and we were able to prove they are correct — this was not fully done in [1] and was a cause of invalid IDs. This check was performed by a simple (although rather verbose and a bit tedious) manual computation that propagates the probability-one differences through the whole differential paths, as done similarly in [19].

We now detail the probability-one differential characteristics used in the ID. Differences are expressed with a subset of the generalized constraints of De Canni`ere and Rechberger [13]. In particular we use:

- '-' to denote that two bits are equal;
- '0' to denote that two bits are identical and equal to zero; similarly, we can define '1'.
- 'x' to denote that two bits are different;
- 'n' to denote that two bits are different, and the first bit is zero;
- 'u' to denote that two bits are different, and the first bit is one;
- '?' to denote that both bits can take an arbitrary value; we refer to this one as a 'trivial' difference.

#### 5.1 Forward Characteristic on 2.5 Rounds

The forward characteristic starts at round 3<sup>9</sup> and is based on the fact that the message word m<sup>13</sup> is used in the first half of a column-step call in round 3, and is not used again before the second half of a diagonal step in round 4. Consequently, we can introduce a difference in m<sup>13</sup> and cancel it immediately with a difference in v2; no difference will be introduced again for 1.5 rounds.

<sup>9</sup> We start indexing the rounds from 0, so as to match the indexing of the σ permutations.

{9}------------------------------------------------

If we note MSB an 'x' difference in the most significant bit, the initial differences in this characteristic are then MSB for m<sup>13</sup> and v2, and no difference in any other state or message word.

In the diagonal step of round 4, a difference is introduced in the state by the difference in m13. This difference quickly propagates to every state word, but some non-trivial differences occur with probability one. After the column step of round 5, i.e. at round 5.5, the state words for which there are non-trivial probability-one differences are listed below along with their differences (in the following, the leftmost constraint is for the MSB).

For BLAKE2b we have:

```
v0: ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????x-------
v3: ????????????????????????????????????????x-----------------------
v7: ???????????????????????????????????????????????????????x-------?
v11: ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????x-------
v12: ????????x-------????????????????????????????????????????????????
v15: ----------------????????????????????????????????????????x-------
```

For BLAKE-512 we have:

```
v0: ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????x------
v3: ?????????????????????????????????????????x----------------------
v7: ????x------?????????????????????????????????????????????????????
v11: ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????x------
v12: ?????????x------????????????????????????????????????????????????
v15: ----------------?????????????????????????????????????????x------
```

For BLAKE2s and BLAKE-256 we have:

```
v0: ????????????????????????????x---
v3: ????????????????????x-----------
v7: ???x---?????????????????????????
v11: ????????????????????????????x---
v12: ????x---????????????????????????
v15: --------????????????????????x---
```

#### 5.2 Backward Characteristic on 3.5 Rounds

The backward differential characteristic starts in the diagonal step of round 8. As we want to use this characteristic to mount a miss-in-the-middle with the previous forward characteristic, we need to use differences in the message words consistent with the ones used in the latter. Hence we use a single difference in the MSB of m13. This message word is used in the second half of a G −1 call in the inverse of the diagonal step of round 8, and is not used again before the second half of a G −1 call in the inverse of a column step in round 7.

In order to delay the propagation of differences as much as possible, we want to proceed as for the forward characteristic and cancel the difference introduced by the message at round 8 by specifying an appropriate state difference. It is again possible to do so with probability one; in this case however, the difference will be somewhat more complex.

For BLAKE2b, we do so by using the following initial differences in the state at the beginning of the inverse of round 8:

```
v4 (input a to G
               −1
                  ): x-------------------------------0-----------------------n-------
v9 (input b to G
               −1
                 ): -------x-------x---------------x---------------x-------n--------
v14 (input c to G
                −1
                  ): --------n-------n---------------n1--------------n-------0-------
v3 (input d to G
               −1
                  ): --------n-------n---------------00--------------n---------------
```

One should note two things about this input difference. The first one is that the signed differences 'n' can all be replaced together with a signed difference 'u' of opposite sign: the only important fact is that all differences are signed similarly. Moreover, some '0' and '1'constraints in the difference for v<sup>3</sup> and v<sup>14</sup> are here to avoid a carry propagation in the update of c in G −1 , which is c ← c − d. However, this is a sufficient condition only, and the same result can be achieved by specifying alternative differences. In other words, these differences only make a subset of the state difference we were looking for. We do not specify the whole set in here, as the existence of a subset already serves our purpose. Similarly, for BLAKE-512, we use the following state difference:

```
v4 (input a to G
               −1
                  ): x-------------------------------0------------------------n------
v9 (input b to G
               −1
                 ): ----n---------------x------x---------------x---------------x----
v14 (input c to G
                −1
                  ): ---------n------n---------------n1--------------n--------0------
v3 (input d to G
               −1
                  ): ---------n------n---------------00--------------n---------------
```

Finally, for BLAKE2s and BLAKE-256 we use:

{10}------------------------------------------------

```
v4 (input a to G
                −1
                  ): x---------------0-----------n---
v9 (input b to G
               −1
                  ): ---n-------x---x-------x-------x
v14 (input c to G
                −1
                   ): ----n---n-------n1------n---0---
v3 (input d to G
                −1
                  ): ----n---n-------00------n-------
```

As for the forward characteristic, the difference in m<sup>13</sup> again introduces a difference that propagates to the rest of the state. However, due to the slower diffusion of G <sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with respect to G, it is possible to keep non-trivial differences of probability one for more rounds. We then get the following differences after the inverse of the diagonal step of round 5, i.e. at round 5.5 (only the differences occurring on state words for which there were non-trivial differences after the forward characteristic are listed, but note that there were additional ones which are omitted here).

For BLAKE2b we have:

```
v0: ????????????????????????????????????????????????x---------------
v3: ----------------????????????????????????????????x---------------
v7: ????????????????????????????????????????????????x---------------
v12: ????????????????????????????????????????????????x---------------
v15: ----------------------------------------------------------------
```

In this case, the differences for BLAKE-512 are actually identical. Similarly, for BLAKE2s and BLAKE-256, we have:

```
v0: ????????????????????????x-------
v3: --------????????????????x-------
v7: ????????????????????????x-------
v12: ????????????????????????x-------
v15: --------------------------------
```

#### 5.3 Mounting the Miss-in-the-Middle

Now that we have established probability-one differences obtained at round 5.5 from two different characteristics, we show that these characteristics are incompatible. The result is immediate, when noticing that the differences on state words v0, v3, and v<sup>15</sup> are incompatible for all four permutations of BLAKE2b, BLAKE-512, BLAKE2s, and BLAKE-256, and the differences on word v<sup>7</sup> are further incompatible for BLAKE2b.

As one characteristic goes in the forward direction and one in the backward, inverse direction, this incompatibility consists in effect in a miss-in-the-middle which gives a 6-rounds impossible differential. This family of ID goes from round 3 to round 8, and is specified by the differences in the message word m<sup>13</sup> and in the state v<sup>2</sup> (at round 3), and v3, v4, v<sup>9</sup> and v<sup>14</sup> (at round 8), from the two families of characteristics presented above.

#### 5.4 Extending by One More Half-Round

The 2.5-rounds forward characteristic used in the above can easily be extended for one more half-round for all the permutations of BLAKE2 and BLAKE, thereby increasing the number of rounds reached by the ID to 6.5. The extension works as follow.

First note that the message word m<sup>13</sup> is not used in the diagonal step of round 2. Thus no difference will be introduced by the message words in that step. Second, we use one of the probability-one differential characteristics for G mentioned in [1]. This characteristic has no differences in the message word, and simply maps through G the state input difference (MSB, 0, MSB, MSB ⊕ (MSB ≪ r), 0, 0) to the state output difference (MSB, 0, 0, 0). It is straightforward to check that this happens with probability one, where r is 32 for BLAKE2b and BLAKE-512, and 16 for BLAKE2s and BLAKE-256. As the output difference of this characteristic is precisely the input difference of the forward characteristic used in the ID, it is therefore possible to join the two characteristics together. The initial differences of this new forward characteristic starting at round 2.5 are then MSB for m13, v2, and v8, and MSB ⊕ (MSB ≪ r) for v13, with all other words having no differences.

## 6 Differential Analysis

In this section we show differential attacks on BLAKE2. The target of our attacks are be the compression function and the hash function BLAKE2b only — the analysis applies to BLAKE2s as well, but the number of attacked rounds is lower. To build high probability differential characteristics we expand the analysis

{11}------------------------------------------------

of Guo and Matusiewicz [18] (see also [1]) and Dunkelman and Khovratovich [17] of BLAKE-256. In both of these papers, the difference is of a special rotational type and is chosen to cancel the effects of the rotations on 16, 12, 8, and 7 bits in the function G of BLAKE-256. The first authors note that among the four rotations in G, only the last one (on 7 bits) is not divisible by 4. Thus they choose to work with the difference 88888888 and analyze only the characteristics where before the last rotation the difference in b is 0. They linearize G, assume each modular addition involving differences has a probability of 2−<sup>7</sup> (the difference in MSB saves one 2−<sup>1</sup> ), and with a computer search find that the best characteristic is on 4 rounds. Although their characteristic has rather high probability of 2−56, they could not go more as no characteristics exist on higher number of rounds due to the condition that no difference enters the rotation on 7. The authors argue that one can consider the special case of a difference entering this rotation resulting in twice difference (i.e. 11111111) at the output, and then canceling it in the next G function, but state that their experiments show that in this case the probability of the characteristics drops significantly. Dunkelman and Khovratovich choose to work with the difference 04040404 (the probability of modular addition increases to around 2−<sup>4</sup> ) and consider characteristics where no difference enters the rotation on 12 bits10. Moreover, they consider two additional type of differences obtained by multiplying the initial difference by 2 and 3 — this way they can allow difference in rotation on 7. The authors run a full search of round-reduced characteristics with all possible configurations for the difference in the state (i.e. in each of the 16 words, the difference can be 0, 04040404, 08080808, 0c0c0c0c), and no difference in the message words. The characteristics they find are on more rounds, but have lower probability.

The new rotation amounts of 32,24,16 and 63 bits in the function G of BLAKE2b are very similar to the rotations from BLAKE-256. Hence we can apply the technique of finding round-reduced characteristics from the previous two papers by considering the 64-bit differences 0404040404040404 and 0004000400040004. We also use the following improvements for the search methods:

- 1. In the first search we work with δ = 0404040404040404 and with two additional differences 08080 80808080808, 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c, that is the difference in the words can be 0, δ, 2 × δ, and 3 × δ. This helps us to overcome the rotation on 63, i.e. instead of the condition that no difference enters ≫ 63 now we can allow δ to be at the input of this rotation which results in 2 × δ at the output.
- 2. In the second search we work with ∇ = 0004000400040004 and again with two additional differences 2×∇, 3×∇. As in the analysis of Dunkelman and Khovratovich, we require no difference at the input of rotation on 24 bits, but improve their search by considering two possibilities for the difference in each of the message words (instead of one: no difference).

The choice of 4 differences (instead of only 2) leads to the situation where in the modular addition, for the same input there are possibly several outputs. For example, δ + const can give both δ and 3 × δ. Hence after the linearization, for fixed input differences to G, this function can produce several output differences. Dunkelman and Khovratovich note<sup>11</sup> that they get 276 possible differentials for G when the differences in a, b, c, d are one of the four (0, 2 × ∇, 3 × ∇), and there is no difference in the message words. As we allow the differences 0, δ (or 0, ∇) in the messages (see below), in the first search we end up with 4531 differentials for G, and with 1192 in the second. There are 1024 possible input differences (each of a, b, c, d can take 4 different values, while the message words can take 2), hence on average in the first search, we have 4 outputs per single input, while only one in the second. In theory (without taking into account the probabilities) this results in around 2<sup>2</sup>·<sup>8</sup> = 2<sup>16</sup> outputs for the whole round that can be obtained from a single input in the first search, while in the second this number is 1. Thus to keep the first search practical we cannot have too many input differences. We note that the probabilities of the differentials<sup>12</sup> range from 2<sup>−</sup><sup>8</sup> to 2<sup>−</sup><sup>75</sup> in the first search, and 2<sup>−</sup><sup>4</sup> to 2<sup>−</sup><sup>36</sup> in the second.

In both of our searches we try to maximize the number of starting differences in the state and in the message words. We can do this up to a certain extent. For example, there are 16 message words, thus if we want to try all four possible starting differences, we will end up with 2<sup>16</sup>·<sup>2</sup> = 2<sup>32</sup> starting points (without considering any difference in the state). To make the searches feasible, in certain cases we restrict the differences to only 0, δ (or 0, ∇). Note that the initializations in BLAKE2 differs from BLAKE, and in particular no difference can be introduced in v8, v9, v10, v11, v14, v15. We follow strictly the definition of

<sup>10</sup> This type of characteristics were mentioned by Guo and Matusiewicz, but no detailed analysis was provided in [18].

<sup>11</sup> Guo and Matusiewicz work with only 2 difference, 0 and δ, thus modular additions in G are uniquely determined and for each input they get a single output.

<sup>12</sup> The probability of the trivial differential with zero input-output difference is 1.

{12}------------------------------------------------

BLAKE2 and do not allow starting differences in any of these six words13. As we will see further, this has a major impact on the maximal number of rounds the best characteristics can cover in the case of compression functions.

One final note on the message modification. In our searches we assume the attacker can always pass for free the modular additions that involve the message words in the function G, of the first round only. This is reasonable as he always controls the message and to pass these additions he needs to fix only a small amount of bits in the message words per active bit, and can use the remaining degrees of freedom in the message to go through the rest of the rounds probabilistically. Recall that in the first round all the message words are independent. More advanced message modification techniques might be available, however, as we do not know in advance the best characteristic, it is hard to predict which of the remaining modular additions in the first round can be passed for free. Using message modification anywhere but in the first round is very hard due to the condition on the fixed IV, i.e. once a state has been fixed in some middle round, the attacker should be sure that after going backwards the resulting initial state complies with the initialization, i.e. has correct values for v8, v9, v10, v11, v14, v15.

We have run the second search (with the main difference ∇ = 0004000400040004) and obtained the following results:

- For the hash function of BLAKE2b, when the difference in the message words can take any of the values 0, ∇, 2×∇, 3×∇ (in total 216·<sup>2</sup> = 2<sup>32</sup> starting differences), the best characteristic is only on 2 rounds and holds with probability 2−<sup>198</sup> .
- For the compression function of BLAKE2b, when the difference in the chaining values and the counters can take 0, ∇, 2×∇, 3×∇, and the difference in the message words is 0 or ∇ (in total 2<sup>10</sup>·2+16·<sup>1</sup> = 2<sup>36</sup> starting differences), the best characteristics is on 3 rounds with probability 2<sup>−</sup><sup>336</sup> .

The first search (with the main difference δ = 0404040404040404) requires much more computational power as we are dealing with average forking on 4, i.e. for each input of G there are 4 outputs. We had to optimize the code significantly in order to try all possible inputs. The outcome of this search is as follow:

- For the hash function of BLAKE2b, when the difference in the message words can take any of the values 0 or δ (in total 2<sup>16</sup> starting differences), the best characteristic is on 3 rounds and holds with probability 2<sup>−</sup><sup>344</sup> .
- For the compression function of BLAKE2b, when the difference in the chaining values, the counters, and the message words can take 0, δ (in total 210·1+16·<sup>1</sup> = 2<sup>26</sup> starting differences), the best characteristics is on 4 rounds with probability 2<sup>−</sup>366.<sup>5</sup> .

Note that in both of the cases (hash and compression), the first search produced better characteristics. Moreover, note that although we have matched the number of attacked rounds in the case of compression function (both BLAKE2 and BLAKE have differentials on 4 rounds), the probability of the characteristic of BLAKE2 is only 2<sup>−</sup>366.<sup>5</sup> whereas the best known characteristics for BLAKE hash function is of 2.5 rounds with probability 2<sup>−</sup>56. Therefore, despite launching a search with much higher number of starting differences, the new initialization used in BLAKE2 significantly limits the freedom<sup>14</sup> of the attacker against this type of differentials attacks. Thus the tweaked initialization seems to have much better security properties.

We are able to extend for one half round each of the differentials for the compression and the hash function. In the case of former, we allow any difference in the last rotation on 63 bits (our search prohibits this, thus it was not able to find it). We end up with a differential characteristic on 4.5 rounds for the compression function of BLAKE2b that holds with probability 2<sup>−</sup>494.<sup>5</sup> — see Appendix C for the details. Similarly, we can go for an additional half round for the hash function BLAKE2b. We get low probability characteristic, however by using neutral bits we should be able to find a pair of messages that conform to the differential with a complexity of around 2<sup>480</sup> hash function calls — in Appendix D we give the method to achieve this. Without the initialization limitations, we extend similar characteristics search to the permutation and obtain a result on 5.5 round with probability 2<sup>−</sup><sup>928</sup>, shown in Appendix E.

## 7 Conclusion

A comparison of the security of BLAKE2 and BLAKE against the attacks we have examined in this paper is given in Tbl. 2. Based on our findings we can deduce several important facts about the impact of the

<sup>13</sup> We have seen in the previous sections that when the attacker can fully control the input state, then attacks on the full-round BLAKE2 are possible.

<sup>14</sup> No difference can be introduced in v8, v9, v10, v11, v14, v15.

{13}------------------------------------------------

Table 2. Comparison of the attacks on BLAKE2 and BLAKE.

|                                        |       | BLAKE2           |     | BLAKE        |   |           |  |  |
|----------------------------------------|-------|------------------|-----|--------------|---|-----------|--|--|
| Attack                                 | perm. | cf.<br>chosen IV |     | perm.<br>cf. |   | chosen IV |  |  |
| Rotational                             | 12    | -                | 7   | -            | - | -         |  |  |
| Collisions with Internal Differentials | 12    | -                | 12  | -<br>-       |   | -         |  |  |
| Near-Collisions                        | -     | 3                | 12  | 4            | 4 | 4         |  |  |
| Weak-class of keys/preimages           | 12    | -                | 12  | -            | - | -         |  |  |
| Impossible differentials               | 6.5   | -                | -   | 6.5          | - | -         |  |  |
| Boomerangs                             | 5.5   | 5.5              | 5.5 | 8            | 7 | 8         |  |  |
| Differentials                          | 5.5   | 4.5              | 12  | 4            | 4 | 4-6       |  |  |
| Hash function differentials            |       | 3.5              |     | 2.5          |   |           |  |  |

#### tweaks in BLAKE2:

- 1. The absence of constants in the function G has a major impact on the basic building block, i.e. the keyed permutation of BLAKE2, and this cipher can be fully attacked. We can launch a key recovery rotational attack on all 12 rounds of the permutation BLAKE2b with a high complexity, and a distinguisher based on internal differentials that holds for 2<sup>64</sup> keys of BLAKE2b (2<sup>32</sup> for BLAKE2s) based on a single query. Thus one should be careful when using this permutation in applications. Note that neither of these attacks is applicable to BLAKE.
- 2. The change of rotation amounts in BLAKE2b does matter against certain types of attacks. The differentials we have presented in § 6 are based in particular on the fact that all rotations are either divisible by 8 or are close to being divisible by 8 (e.g. 63). In fact, the same search of differential characteristics applies to BLAKE2b and BLAKE-256, however the latter is a 256-bit function while the former is 512-bit, and thus permits characteristics with lower probabilities.
- 3. In the initialization, omitting the double use of the counter, as well as introducing constants IV reduces the number of attacked rounds, i.e. increases the security of the compression function. Note that in the differential attacks, we were able to match (and advance more) the number of rounds as in BLAKE only because we used a much more complex search of differential characteristics and we were dealing with 512-bit hash. For instance, if the initialization in BLAKE2 were the same as in BLAKE, most likely we could penetrate more rounds in the differential attack (we could not run the search for this version as it requires significant amount of computations). In fact, the new initialization is crucial as if one used the same as in BLAKE, then collisions (respectively partial-collisions) could be produced with only 2<sup>128</sup> (respectively 261) compression function calls.
- 4. The complete absence of constants in G makes the security of the compression function highly dependent on the right choice of IV (this is not the case of BLAKE). That is, even with the new initialization but different IV, one could still launch attacks — see §§ 3 and 4. The 'weak' IV on the other hand are highly structured (either rotational, all equal, or some particular values). The random choice of IV as in BLAKE2 makes these weaknesses impossible to exploit.

To summarize, based on our results, we have shown that the tweaks introduced by BLAKE2, if analyzed separately, reduce the security of the version in certain theoretical attack frameworks as our analysis suggests existence of several efficient attacks on the basic building block of BLAKE2. However, taken together the tweaks do not have a significant impact on the security of the hash/compression function, aside from the one round increase (resulting in a 3.5 round attack) against the hash function and a half round in the case of compression function. Thus BLAKE2, similarly to its predecessor BLAKE, has a very high security margin against all known attacks even after reducing the number of rounds by four.

#### Acknowledgments

The work in this paper was partially supported by the Singapore National Research Foundation Fellowship 2012 (NRF-NRFF2012-06). We would also like to thank the anonymous reviewers from SAC2013 and CT-RSA2014 for their helpful comments.

{14}------------------------------------------------

## References

- 1. Aumasson, J.P., Guo, J., Knellwolf, S., Matusiewicz, K., Meier, W.: Differential and Invertibility Properties of BLAKE. [20] 318–332
- 2. Aumasson, J.P., Henzen, L., Meier, W., Phan, R.C.W.: SHA-3 proposal BLAKE, version 1.3 (2008) Available online at https://131002.net/blake/.
- 3. Aumasson, J.P., Meier, W., Phan, R.C.W.: The Hash Function Family LAKE. In Nyberg, K., ed.: FSE. Volume 5086 of LNCS., Springer (2008) 36–53
- 4. Aumasson, J.P., Neves, S., Wilcox-O'Hearn, Z., Winnerlein, C.: BLAKE2: Simpler, Smaller, Fast as MD5. In Jr., M.J.J., Locasto, M.E., Mohassel, P., Safavi-Naini, R., eds.: ACNS. Volume 7954 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science., Springer (2013) 119–135
- 5. Aumasson, J.P., Neves, S., Wilcox-O'Hearn, Z., Winnerlein, C.: BLAKE2: simpler, smaller, fast as MD5 version 2013.01.29 (2013) Available online at https://blake2.net/.
- 6. Aumasson, J.P., Neves, S., Wilcox-O'Hearn, Z., Winnerlein, C.: The BLAKE2 website (May 2013) https: //blake2.net.
- 7. Bernstein, D.J.: ChaCha, a variant of Salsa20 (2008) Available online at http://cr.yp.to/chacha.html.
- 8. Bernstein, D.J.: The Salsa20 Family of Stream Ciphers. In Robshaw, M.J.B., Billet, O., eds.: The eSTREAM Finalists. Volume 4986 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer (2008) 84–97 Available online at http://cr.yp.to/snuffle.html.
- 9. Bertoni, G., Daemen, J., Peeters, M., Assche, G.V.: The Keccak reference (January 2011) Available online at http://keccak.noekeon.org/.
- 10. Biham, E., Dunkelman, O.: A Framework for Iterative Hash Functions HAIFA. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2007 (2007) 278
- 11. Biryukov, A., Gauravaram, P., Guo, J., Khovratovich, D., Ling, S., Matusiewicz, K., Nikolic, I., Pieprzyk, J., Wang, H.: Cryptanalysis of the LAKE Hash Family. In Dunkelman, O., ed.: FSE. Volume 5665 of LNCS., Springer (2009) 156–179
- 12. Biryukov, A., Nikoli´c, I., Roy, A.: Boomerang Attacks on BLAKE-32. In Joux, A., ed.: FSE. Volume 6733 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science., Springer (2011) 218–237
- 13. Canni`ere, C.D., Rechberger, C.: Finding SHA-1 Characteristics: General Results and Applications. In Lai, X., Chen, K., eds.: ASIACRYPT. Volume 4284 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science., Springer (2006) 1–20
- 14. Chang, S.j., Perlner, R., Burr, W.E., Turan, M.S., Kelsey, J.M., Paul, S., Bassham, L.E.: Third-Round Report of the SHA-3 Cryptographic Hash Algorithm Competition. NIST Interagency Report 7896 (2012)
- 15. Dinur, I., Dunkelman, O., Shamir, A.: Self-Differential Cryptanalysis of Up to 5 Rounds of SHA-3. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2012 (2012) 672
- 16. Dinur, I., Dunkelman, O., Shamir, A.: Collision Attacks on Up to 5 Rounds of SHA-3 Using Generalized Internal Differentials. In: FSE. (2013)
- 17. Dunkelman, O., Khovratovich, D.: Iterative Differentials, Symmetries, and Message Modification in BLAKE-256. In: ECRYPT2 Hash Workshop. (2011)
- 18. Guo, J., Matusiewicz, K.: Round-reduced near-collisions of BLAKE-32. In: WEWoRC. (2009) Available online at http://guo.crypto.sg/blake-col.pdf.
- 19. Guo, J., Thomsen, S.S.: Deterministic Differential Properties of the Compression Function of BMW. In Biryukov, A., Gong, G., Stinson, D.R., eds.: Selected Areas in Cryptography. Volume 6544 of LNCS., Springer (2010) 338–350
- 20. Hong, S., Iwata, T., eds.: Fast Software Encryption, 17th International Workshop, FSE 2010, Seoul, Korea, February 7-10, 2010, Revised Selected Papers. In Hong, S., Iwata, T., eds.: FSE. Volume 6147 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science., Springer (2010)
- 21. Khovratovich, D., Nikoli´c, I.: Rotational Cryptanalysis of ARX. [20] 333–346
- 22. Li, J., Xu, L.: Attacks on Round-Reduced BLAKE. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2009 (2009) 238 https://eprint.iacr.org/2009/238.
- 23. Peyrin, T.: Improved Differential Attacks for ECHO and Grøstl. In Rabin, T., ed.: CRYPTO. Volume 6223 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science., Springer (2010) 370–392
- 24. Vidali, J., Nose, P., Pasalic, E.: Collisions for variants of the BLAKE hash function. Inf. Process. Lett. 110(14-15) (2010) 585–590

## A Additional Specification Parameters of BLAKE2

We give here the definition of the inverses G <sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of the G functions. With notations similar as in § 2, the G −1 function of BLAKE2b G-1(a, b, c, d) is defined as:

{15}------------------------------------------------

```
1 : b ← (b ≪ 63) ⊕ c 5 : b ← (b ≪ 24) ⊕ c
2 : c ← c − d 6 : c ← c − d
3 : d ← (d ≪ 16) ⊕ a 7 : d ← (d ≪ 32) ⊕ a
4 : a ← (a − mj ) − b 8 : a ← (a − mi) − b
                                          .
```

The G −1 function of BLAKE2s G-1(a, b, c, d) is defined as:

$$1: b \leftarrow (b \ll 7) \oplus c \qquad 5: b \leftarrow (b \ll 12) \oplus c$$

$$2: c \leftarrow c - d \qquad 6: c \leftarrow c - d$$

$$3: d \leftarrow (d \ll 8) \oplus a \qquad 7: d \leftarrow (d \ll 16) \oplus a$$

$$4: a \leftarrow (a - m_j) - b \qquad 8: a \leftarrow (a - m_i) - b$$

We also give the permutations used for the message expansion of BLAKE and BLAKE2 in Tbl. 3.

| σ0 | 0  | 1  | 2  | 3  | 4  | 5  | 6  | 7  | 8  | 9  | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 |
|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|
| σ1 | 14 | 10 | 4  | 8  | 9  | 15 | 13 | 6  | 1  | 12 | 0  | 2  | 11 | 7  | 5  | 3  |
| σ2 | 11 | 8  | 12 | 0  | 5  | 2  | 15 | 13 | 10 | 14 | 3  | 6  | 7  | 1  | 9  | 4  |
| σ3 | 7  | 9  | 3  | 1  | 13 | 12 | 11 | 14 | 2  | 6  | 5  | 10 | 4  | 0  | 15 | 8  |
| σ4 | 9  | 0  | 5  | 7  | 2  | 4  | 10 | 15 | 14 | 1  | 11 | 12 | 6  | 8  | 3  | 13 |
| σ5 | 2  | 12 | 6  | 10 | 0  | 11 | 8  | 3  | 4  | 13 | 7  | 5  | 15 | 14 | 1  | 9  |
| σ6 | 12 | 5  | 1  | 15 | 14 | 13 | 4  | 10 | 0  | 7  | 6  | 3  | 9  | 2  | 8  | 11 |
| σ7 | 13 | 11 | 7  | 14 | 12 | 1  | 3  | 9  | 5  | 0  | 15 | 4  | 8  | 6  | 2  | 10 |
| σ8 | 6  | 15 | 14 | 9  | 11 | 3  | 0  | 8  | 12 | 2  | 13 | 7  | 1  | 4  | 10 | 5  |
| σ9 | 10 | 2  | 8  | 4  | 7  | 6  | 1  | 5  | 15 | 11 | 9  | 14 | 3  | 12 | 13 | 0  |

Table 3. Permutations of {0,. . ., 15} used in the BLAKE and BLAKE2 families.

## B Proof of Lemma 1

The lemma claims that we can find the solution of

$$X \oplus [((X+A) \oplus X \lll 1) + B] = (X+A) \ggg 24$$
 (18)

in 2<sup>25</sup> time, for the 64-bit words X, A, B. We achieve this by eliminating the rotation at the right side. Let X = x<sup>63</sup> . . . x0, A = a<sup>63</sup> . . . a0, B = b<sup>63</sup> . . . b0,(X + A) ≫ 24 = H = h<sup>63</sup> . . . h0, be the bit values of the words of the equation. We start by guessing the 24 bits x<sup>47</sup> . . . x<sup>24</sup> and the carry at position 24 from the addition (X + A) (this process will be repeated for all possible values), hence we can determine the value of h<sup>23</sup> . . . h0. From (18) we can immediately find x<sup>63</sup> = a<sup>0</sup> ⊕ b<sup>0</sup> ⊕ h0. Let us try to solve (18) for the first 24 bits of X, i.e. let us find the solution of the equation:

$$X' \oplus [((X'+A) \oplus X' \lll 1) + B] = H',$$
 (19)

on 24-bit words X<sup>0</sup> = x<sup>23</sup> . . . x0, etc. This is a T-function and a solution can be found efficiently by solving it from the least to the most significant bit. Further we sketch the method. By analyzing the above equation for bit position 1 we can determine the value of x<sup>0</sup> as well as the values of the carries r0, t<sup>0</sup> from the modular additions (X<sup>0</sup> + A),((X<sup>0</sup> + A) ⊕ X<sup>0</sup> ≪ 1) + B. The condition on the bit i can be expressed as:

$$x_1 \oplus x_1 \oplus a_1 \oplus r_0 \oplus x_0 \oplus b_1 \oplus t_0 = h_i, \tag{20}$$

where r<sup>0</sup> = x0a0, t<sup>0</sup> = (x<sup>0</sup> ⊕ a<sup>0</sup> ⊕ x63)b0. Thus (20) becomes:

$$x_0(1 \oplus a_0 \oplus b_0) = a_0 b_0 \oplus x_{63} b_0 \oplus h_0 \tag{21}$$

Depending on the values of a0, b0, h0, x<sup>63</sup> the above equation can have no solution, one or two solutions. If there is at least one solution, we store into a table the values for x<sup>0</sup> and the values of the carries r0, t0. 

{16}------------------------------------------------

Further we move to the next bit, i.e. position 2, and obtain an equation similar to (20). When determining  $r_1, t_1$  we take all possible values for  $r_0, t_0$  from the table of stored values, and determine the set of possible values of  $x_1$  and  $r_1, t_1$  (and store them). This procedure is repeated for each bit. Obviously, the solution is linear in the number of bits (i.e. 24), hence we can easily find all solutions. On average there would be one solution (recall that at some bit positions there will be no solutions for (21)).

Once we find the value of X', determining the rest of the bits of X is trivial. Note that solving the initial equation (18) for the bits 24-47 is easy as we have already guessed the values of  $x_{47}, \ldots, x_{24}$  at the beginning. Hence from (18) we can determine the remaining 16 bits of X (the left side is constant), *i.e.*  $x_{63}, \ldots, x_{48}$ . Finally, we can determine an additional 24-bits of X on the right side and use it as a filter for incorrect solutions (or as soon as we determine all bits of X we immediately check if it is a solution for the equation). As this is 25-bit filter, after repeating the whole procedure for all possible  $x_{47}, \ldots, x_{24}$  and the carry, we will find on average 1 solution. Thus the total complexity is as claimed.

# C An Example of 4.5-round Differential Characteristics for the Compression Function of BLAKE2b

Here we give the best differential characteristic on 4 rounds found by the first search. With the message modification in the first round, the probability of the characteristic is  $2^{-45.8\cdot8} \approx 2^{-366.5}$ . We can extend it for one additional half round to obtain a 4.5-round differential characteristic for the compression function of BLAKE2b with probability  $2^{-61.8\cdot8} \approx 2^{-494.5}$ . We use 1, 2, 3 to denote the differences 04040404040404,  $2 \cdot 0404040404040404040404040404040404040$ 

$$\begin{array}{l} \text{Round 0:} \begin{pmatrix} 0 \ 0 \ 1 \ 1 \\ 1 \ 0 \ 0 \ 0 \\ 0 \ 0 \ 0 \ 0 \\ 1 \ 0 \ 0 \ 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-2 \cdot 8} (\text{with MM})} \begin{pmatrix} 0 \ 0 \ 0 \ 0 \\ 0 \ 0 \ 0 \ 0 \\ 0 \ 0 \$$

#### D Differential Attack on 3.5 rounds for the Hash Function of BLAKE2b

Below we present the best differential characteristic on 3 rounds (from round 6 to 9) found as well with the first search, that has a probability of  $2^{-43.8} \approx 2^{-344}$  (using the message modification to pass for free some of the additions in the first round). We can extend it for one additional half round to obtain a

{17}------------------------------------------------

3.5-round characteristic for the hash function of BLAKE2b with probability  $2^{-67.8\cdot8}\approx 2^{-542.5}$ . Although the probability is below  $2^{-512}$  by using neutral bits in the first round we can find a pair that follows the characteristic. Note that the last G function in round 1, has no input/output differences. Hence, if we find a pair for the first seven G functions of this round, then we can use the freedom in the two message words of the last G function, to produce another  $2^{128}$  pairs for free. As for the remaining 3 rounds we need around  $2^{480}$  pairs, we have to repeat the first round around  $2^{480-128}=2^{352}$  times. Thus the total complexity to find a pair that follows the whole 3.5 characteristic is  $2^{352+(2+6)\cdot8}+2^{480}\approx 2^{480}$ .

Round 6: 
$$\begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 &$$

## E Differential Attack on 5.5 rounds for the Permutation of BLAKE2b

Below, we present the 5.5-round characteristic for the permutation with probability  $2^{-928}$ , from round 0 to 5. Note that this characteristic is no longer under compression function limitation, e.g., differences can appear in any input state and message words. It is meaningful in a much broader setting, i.e., the underlining primitive is a 1024-bit block cipher with 1024-bit key. Under such setting, one has immediate distinguishers for a set of  $2^{64}$  weak keys with full rounds, while this characteristic is useful for key recovery

{18}------------------------------------------------

with no restriction on the key set.

$$\begin{array}{l} \text{Round 0:} \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(1+3+0+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(3+1+3+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(3+0+3+4)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+0+3+4)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+0+3+4)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+0+3+4)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 1 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+4+3+4)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+4+3+4)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+4+3+4)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(2+3+6+0)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+0+3+1)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+0+3+1)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+0+3+1)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+6+1+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+6+1+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+6+1+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+6+1+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+6+1+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+6+1+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix} \xrightarrow{2^{-(4+6+1+3)\cdot 8}} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix}$$