

{0}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-0-1"></span><span id="page-0-0"></span>**Putting the OPTI in Round Optimal IA-MPC in the Plain Model**

Yashvanth Kondi<sup>1</sup> , Divya Ravi<sup>2</sup> , Jure Sternad<sup>3</sup> , and Sophia Yakoubov<sup>3</sup>

<sup>1</sup> Silence Laboratories, Singapore; yash@ykondi.net

**Abstract.** We advance the study of best-possible security guarantees of two-round secure multiparty computation in the plain model.

While Goel et al. (TCC '21) showed the infeasibility of Identifiable Abort in two rounds in the plain model with a standard honest majority (i.e. *t < n/*2), the effect of relaxing the setting to that of Selective Identifiable Abort, or an honest supermajority (i.e. *t < n/*3), has not been established. In this work, we close this gap.

In the honest supermajority case, we show a positive result: two rounds *are* sufficient to achieve identifiable abort, and thus also selective identifiable abort. Notably, ours is the first two-round general purpose MPC construction in the plain model tolerating more than one corruption that achieves a guarantee stronger than unanimous abort.

We obtain our construction via a new compiler that lifts any protocol with unanimous abort, to one that achieves identifiable abort. A core building block for our compiler is *Oblivious Public Transfer with Intermediaries* (OPTI), a new primitive that we introduce which may be of independent interest.

When a third or more of the parties might be corrupt, we show a negative result: three rounds are necessary to achieve Selective Identifiable Abort with straight-line simulation.

<sup>2</sup> University of Amsterdam, Netherlands; d.ravi@uva.nl

<sup>3</sup> Aarhus University, Denmark; {jsternad, sophia.yakoubov}@cs.au.dk

{1}------------------------------------------------

# Table of Contents

| Р | UTTI                                                                    | NG THE OPTI IN ROUND OPTIMAL IA-MPC IN THE PLAIN                    |  |  |  |  |
|---|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|--|--|--|--|
| Μ | ODEL                                                                    |                                                                     |  |  |  |  |
|   |                                                                         | avanth Kondi, Divya Ravi, Jure Sternad, and Sophia Yakoubov         |  |  |  |  |
| 1 | Introduction                                                            |                                                                     |  |  |  |  |
|   | 1.1                                                                     | Related Work                                                        |  |  |  |  |
|   | 1.2                                                                     | Our Results                                                         |  |  |  |  |
|   | 1.3                                                                     | Technical Overview: Lower Bound                                     |  |  |  |  |
|   | 1.4                                                                     | Technical Overview: Upper Bound                                     |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | Imp                                                                     | ossibility of Two Round MPC with SIA for $t \geq \frac{n}{3} \dots$ |  |  |  |  |
| 3 | Oblivious Public Transfer with Intermediaries (OPTI)                    |                                                                     |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.1                                                                     | OPTI Definitions                                                    |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.2                                                                     | OPTI Protocol                                                       |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.3                                                                     | Proof of Security                                                   |  |  |  |  |
| 4 | Defi                                                                    | nition of MPC with Identifiable Abort                               |  |  |  |  |
| 5 | Construction of Two-Round MPC with IA for $t < \frac{n}{3} \dots \dots$ |                                                                     |  |  |  |  |
|   | 5.1                                                                     |                                                                     |  |  |  |  |
| A | Preliminaries                                                           |                                                                     |  |  |  |  |
|   | A.1                                                                     | Public Key Encryption                                               |  |  |  |  |
|   | A.2                                                                     | Commitment Scheme                                                   |  |  |  |  |
|   | A.3                                                                     | Secret Sharing                                                      |  |  |  |  |
|   | A.4                                                                     | Multi-string Non-Interactive Zero-knowledge Proofs                  |  |  |  |  |
|   | A.5                                                                     | Garbling Scheme                                                     |  |  |  |  |
| В | Hyb                                                                     | rids for Proof of Theorem 3                                         |  |  |  |  |

{2}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-2-0"></span>**1 Introduction**

Secure Multiparty Computation (MPC, [\[CDvdG88,](#page-30-0)[GMW87,](#page-31-0)[Yao86\]](#page-31-1)) allows multiple parties, each with a private input, to compute a joint function of their private inputs without revealing anything about their inputs apart from the function output. MPC has been an active area of research for over 50 years now. A key goal has been making MPC protocols more *secure* and more *efficient*, while reducing the infrastructure it relies on (*setup*).

*Security.* The security of MPC protocols is measured in two crucial ways:

**Adversary's Corruption Power:** How many of the *n* parties can an adversary control (that is, what is the corruption threshold *t*)?

**Security Guarantee:** Which outcomes can an adversary induce?

The most-studied security guarantees are as follows, roughly from weakest to strongest:

**Selective Abort (SA):** The adversary may deprive some of the honest parties of output.

**Unanimous Abort (UA):** The adversary may deprive the honest parties of output, but if it does, the honest parties all agree that the computation aborted. (Any protocol that achieves UA also achieves SA.)

**Selective Identifiable Abort (SIA) [\[DRSY23a\]](#page-30-1):** The adversary may deprive some of the honest parties of output. However, the honest parties who do not receive output are able to identify at least one corrupt party. (Any protocol that achieves SIA also achieves SA.)

**Identifiable Abort (IA) [\[AL10\]](#page-30-2):** The adversary may deprive the honest parties of output, but if it does, the honest parties all agree that the computation aborted, and they are able to unanimously identify at least one corrupt party. (Any protocol that achieves IA also achieves UA and SIA.)

**Fairness (FAIR):** The adversary may deprive the honest parties of output, but if it does, the adversary does not learn the output either. (Any protocol that achieves fairness also achieves UA.)

**Guaranteed Output Delivery (GOD):** The adversary may not deprive the honest parties of output. (Any protocol that achieves GOD also achieves all other guarantees.)

*Efficiency.* There are many axes along which the efficiency of MPC protocols is measured; among the most-studied are communication complexity and round complexity. MPC protocols are known to require at least two rounds of communication [\[HLP11\]](#page-31-2). In this paper, we focus on protocols that run in exactly two rounds.

{3}------------------------------------------------

Setup. Some MPC protocols rely on a common reference string (CRS); others require a public key infrastructure (PKI), where all participants know one-anothers' public keys ahead of time; yet others use an even more involved form of setup, where participants hold correlated randomness. In this paper, we focus on protocols that require no setup. This is known as the plain model.

In this paper, we advance the study of what security is achievable in two rounds in the plain model, for various values of the corruption threshold t.

## <span id="page-3-0"></span>1.1 Related Work

Round-optimal MPC with computational security has been an active area of research under various models, including with setup [GGHR14,MW16,GS18,BL18] and without setup [KO04,IKKP15,BHP17,ACJ17,CCG<sup>+</sup>20]. Round optimality with information-theoretic security was investigated in [AKP20,ABT21,AKP23]. Below, we outline the works most relevant to our setting, namely plain model and computational security.

When an adversary might control a majority of participants  $(t \ge \frac{n}{2})$ , four rounds are necessary for any security guarantee [GMPP16]. We thus focus on the honest majority setting.

When a majority of participants is guaranteed to be honest  $(t < \frac{n}{2})$ , UA (and thus SA) is achievable in two rounds [ACGJ18], while IA is not [GJPR21], and neither are fairness or GOD [PR18,GLS15].

In the case of what is known as an honest "supermajority"  $(t < \frac{n}{3})$ , fairness and GOD are still unachievable in two rounds as long as t > 1 [GIKR02], SA [IKP10] and UA is still achievable (the construction of [ACGJ18] naturally still works if fewer parties are corrupt).

There are some crucial gaps in the landscape, which we resolve in this paper.

#### <span id="page-3-1"></span>1.2 Our Results

Prior to this work, it was unknown whether SIA is achievable in two rounds in the plain model if the adversary controls  $\frac{n}{3} \leq t < \frac{n}{2}$  participants. We show that if straight-line simulation is required, it is *not* (Theorem 1), implying that three rounds are necessary for SIA in this setting<sup>4</sup>.

Prior to this work, it was also unknown whether IA — or SIA — are achievable in two rounds in the plain model if the adversary controls  $t < \frac{n}{3}$  participants. We show that they are (Theorem 3). Our construction is the first two-round general purpose MPC construction in the plain model tolerating more than one corruption to achieve any guarantee stronger than unanimous abort.

Table 1 summarizes our results (positive results highlighted in green, negative in orange), as well as the rest of the landscape described above.

<span id="page-3-2"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup>Straight-line simulation is the standard in the presence of an honest majority, and is required for universal composability. However, it remains an open problem to determine whether SIA is achievable in two rounds in the plain model for  $\frac{n}{3} \leq t < \frac{n}{2}$  if straight-line simulation is not required.

{4}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-4-2"></span>

| Threshold                         | Selective<br>Abort<br>(SA) | Unanimous<br>Abort<br>(UA) | Selective<br>Identifiable<br>Abort<br>(SIA) |                   | Fairness (FAIR)               | Guaranteed<br>Output<br>Delivery<br>(GOD) |
|-----------------------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| $\frac{n}{3} \le t < \frac{n}{2}$ | ✓ ←                        | ✓[ACGJ18] <sup>§</sup>     | <b>✗</b> (Thm. 1)                           | <b>✗</b> [GJPR21] | <b>✗</b> [PR18,GLS15]         | <b>X</b>                                  |
| $t < \frac{n}{3}$                 | ✓ ←                        | <i>,</i>                   | ✓ ←                                         | ✓ (Thm. 3)        | $\chi$ for $t > 1$ — [GIKR02] | $\rightarrow$ <b>X</b> for $t > 1$        |

Table 1: A map of the feasibility and impossibility of two-round MPC with different guarantees, organized by thresholds.

#### <span id="page-4-0"></span>1.3 Technical Overview: Lower Bound

In Section 2, we prove the impossibility of realizing SIA in two rounds in the plain model if  $t \geq \frac{n}{3}$ . In our proof we assume — towards contradiction — a two-round three-party SIA protocol in this setting. We call our three parties  $\mathcal{P}_1$ ,  $\mathcal{P}_2$  and  $\mathcal{P}_3$ ; since  $t \leq \frac{n}{3}$ , an adversary may corrupt at most one of them.

From the point of an honest  $\mathcal{P}_3$ , a corrupt  $\mathcal{P}_2$  who does not send first-round private messages to  $\mathcal{P}_1$  looks just like a corrupt  $\mathcal{P}_1$  claiming not to have received them. Since  $\mathcal{P}_3$  can thus not blame either of its peers, in order to achieve SIA,  $\mathcal{P}_3$  must produce the correct output.

If a corrupt  $\mathcal{P}_2$  misbehaves only by withholding its first-round private messages to  $\mathcal{P}_1$ , we argue that a straight-line simulator must be able to extract corrupt  $\mathcal{P}_2$ 's "correct" input using only its first-round broadcast and private message to  $\mathcal{P}_3$ . We reach our contradiction by observing that a semi-honest  $\mathcal{P}_3$  could then use such a straight-line simulator to extract  $\mathcal{P}_2$ 's input directly, violating privacy.

We extend this lower bound to protocols among n > 3 parties by applying the standard player-emulation argument.

#### <span id="page-4-1"></span>1.4 Technical Overview: Upper Bound

In Section 5, we construct a protocol that computes any function f with identifiable abort in two rounds in the plain model if  $t < \frac{n}{3}$ .

Oblivious Public Transfer with Intermediaries (OPTI). As a building block, we define a new primitive which we call Oblivious Public Transfer with Intermediaries (OPTI). OPTI is a twist on Oblivious Transfer (OT), where a sender supplies two inputs  $x_0$  and  $x_1$ , and a receiver supplies a choice bit b and receives  $x_b$  as output. The security properties of OT are that the sender should not learn b, and the receiver should not learn  $x_{1-b}$ .

Like OT, OPTI has a sender and a receiver where the sender supplies  $x_0$  and  $x_1$ , and the receiver supplies b. Unlike OT, OPTI is run among n parties, where in addition to the sender and receiver, there are n-2 parties who provide no input (we call these *intermediaries*). Also unlike OT, OPTI has *public output*, meaning

{5}------------------------------------------------

that everyone learns *xb*. This means that if *x*<sup>0</sup> ̸= *x*1, the sender naturally learns *b*; however, OPTI requires that if neither the sender nor receiver are corrupt, the adversary should not learn *b* (privacy), and if the sender is not corrupt, the adversary should not learn *x*1−*<sup>b</sup>* (sender-privacy).

In addition to privacy and sender-privacy, OPTI demands *identifiability*, meaning that if honest parties don't get the right output they should be able to blame a corrupt sender or receiver.

*Using OPTI To Build Secure Computation with Identifiable Abort.* We use a two-round OPTI protocol that achieves security in the presence of fewer than *n* 3 corruptions to build a two-round secure computation protocol *ΠIA* which achieves security with identifiable abort in the same setting.

We start with a two-round secure computation protocol *ΠUA* that achieves unanimous abort in this setting [\[ACGJ18\]](#page-29-2). In order to turn *ΠUA* identifiable, we add zero knowledge proofs of correct behavior. Because we are in the plain model, instead of using non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs (NIZKs), which require a common reference string (CRS), we use *multi-string* NIZKs (Appendix [A.4\)](#page-35-0), where each participant generates their own CRS. Parties create their proofs with respect to the entire set of CRSs, and the proofs are secure as long as a majority of the CRSs were generated honestly. Our participants publish their CRSs in the first round, and publish the proofs of correct behavior in the second round.

If *ΠUA* only used public channels, we would be done; however, *ΠUA* relies on private messages between participants, and it is impossible — without further modification — for a party to publicly prove that it sent another party a correct private message, in the absence of public encryption keys. Since we operate in the plain model, parties can generate and publish encryption keys in the first round (thus eliminating the need for private channels in the second round), but this doesn't help with first-round private communication.

To address this, in *ΠIA*, instead of running *ΠUA* directly, each party garbles (Appendix [A.3\)](#page-34-0) the function that computes its second-round messages in *ΠUA* from its state and incoming first-round messages. For each pair of input wire labels corresponding to a bit of incoming first-round message, the garbler plays the role of sender in OPTI; the sender of the corresponding first-round message bit plays the role of receiver, and everyone learns the label. The garbler broadcasts the circuit, together with labels for input wires corresponding to its local state. The circuits are then publicly evaluated to obtain all parties' second-round messages, which in turn can be used to learn the output.

The multi-string NIZKs of correct behavior are modified to prove correct garbling, and those NIZKs — together with the identifiability of OPTI — are enough to guarantee that if honest parties do not learn the correct output, they will identify a corrupt party.

*Realizing OPTI.* We build two-round OPTI in the plain model by having the sender and receiver both Shamir share their inputs with degree-*t* in the first round. Leveraging the homomorphic properties of Shamir secret sharing, in the second round, *n* ≥ 3*t* + 1 parties can locally compute, and broadcast, degree-2*t* 

{6}------------------------------------------------

shares of (1 − *b*)*x*<sup>0</sup> + *bx*<sup>1</sup> = *xb*. To enable identification, the sender and receiver commit to their shares, distribute the openings along with the shares, and use multi-string NIZKs to prove the validity of the committed sharings.

One issue that comes up is that some parties may (claim to) not have received valid shares and openings from the sender or the receiver over private channels in the first round[6](#page-6-2) . If more than *t* parties claim not to have heard from someone, that is enough to identify that party as corrupt. However, it could be that *t* parties claim they didn't hear from the sender, and a different *t* parties claim they didn't hear from the receiver, which doesn't let us identify either. Since those 2*t* parties cannot compute their shares of *xb*, this leaves us with only *n* − 2*t* = *t* + 1 *<* 2*t* degree-2*t* shares — not enough to reconstruct *xb*.

To solve this, we use the fact that if the sender is corrupt, the adversary is allowed to learn all of the inputs. If a party does not get valid shares of *x*<sup>0</sup> and *x*<sup>1</sup> from the sender in the first round, she facilitates the public recovery of all of her shares. Towards this public recovery, in the first round, each party P broadcasts a public encryption key. In the second round, the sender encrypts P's shares to her key, and broadcasts those ciphertexts (along with proofs that they contain the right shares).

Since this enables decryption only after the second round, this comes too late for P to locally compute and broadcast her share of *xb*; however, if she has not heard from the sender in the first round (and thus knows the sender is corrupt), she can broadcast her secret decryption key in the second round before even receiving the ciphertext — along with her share of *b*, enabling the public decryption of her shares of *x*<sup>0</sup> and *x*1, and the public computation of her degree-2*t* share of *xb*.

#### <span id="page-6-0"></span>**2 Impossibility of Two Round MPC with SIA for** *t* **≥** *<sup>n</sup>* **3**

Goel *et al* [\[GJPR21\]](#page-30-9) show that identifiable abort (IA) is unachievable in two rounds for *n* ≤ 3*t* in the plain model. We observe that their impossibility result can be extended to selective identifiable abort (SIA) with minor modifications. One such minor — but crucial — modification is to the function being computed.

For simplicity, we let *n* = 3 and *t* = 1. Consider the following oblivious transfer function:

$$f(0, b, (c_0, c_1)) = (c_b, c_b, 0),$$

where 0 is a default value which is distinct from an abort (where abort is denoted ⊥).

<span id="page-6-1"></span>**Theorem 1.** *There does not exist a two-round three-party protocol for f that achieves SIA against a single corruption with straight-line simulation in the plain model.*

<span id="page-6-2"></span><sup>6</sup> If parties knew one another's public encryption keys, they could provably send private messages. However, since we operate in the plain model, the parties do not have known public keys in the first round.

{7}------------------------------------------------

*Proof.* Towards a contradiction, assume that there exists a two-round threeparty protocol *Π* that computes *f* with SIA security and straight-line simulation in the plain model.

Assume without loss of generality that the second-round communication involves communication only over broadcast channels. (Any private communication in the second round can be emulated via exchanging private random masks in the first round and broadcasting the masked messages in the second round.)

Consider the following scenarios in an execution of the protocol *Π*:

**Scenario** 1*C***:** P<sup>1</sup> is corrupt and behaves honestly, apart from pretending that it did not receive the first-round point-to-point message from P2.

**Scenario** 2*C***:** P<sup>2</sup> is corrupt and behaves honestly, apart from dropping the first round point-to-point message to P1.

**Scenario** 1*SH***:** P<sup>1</sup> is (passively) corrupt and behaves honestly.

**Scenario** 3*SH***:** P<sup>3</sup> is (passively) corrupt and behaves honestly.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Lemma 1.** *The output of* P<sup>3</sup> *in Scenario* 2*C must not be* ⊥ *(with all but negligible probability).*

*Proof (of Lemma [1\)](#page-7-0).* For contradiction, assume that the output of P<sup>3</sup> is ⊥ in Scenario 2*C*. Then, based on the SIA guarantee, P<sup>3</sup> must identify P<sup>2</sup> as the corrupt party. However, since the view of P<sup>3</sup> is identically distributed in Scenarios 2*C* and 1*C*, P<sup>3</sup> must output (⊥*,*P2) identifying P<sup>2</sup> as the cheater in Scenario 1*C* as well (with overwhelming probability). This yields a contradiction, because P<sup>2</sup> is honest in Scenario 1*C*.

Now, consider the simulator S<sup>2</sup> for Scenario 2*C*. We prove two statements about this simulator: it must be able to extract directly after the first round (Lemma [2\)](#page-7-1), and it must extract the correct input (Lemma [3\)](#page-7-2).

<span id="page-7-1"></span>**Lemma 2.** *The simulator* S<sup>2</sup> *for scenario* 2*C must be able to extract* P2*'s input directly after the first round.*

*Proof (of Lemma [2\)](#page-7-1).* Corrupt P<sup>2</sup> has to be able to learn the output *cb*, since honest P<sup>2</sup> does in Scenario 1*C*, and the view of corrupt P<sup>2</sup> in Scenario 2*C* subsumes the view of honest P<sup>2</sup> in Scenario 1*C*.

The simulator thus needs to provide corrupt P<sup>2</sup> with enough information to learn the output. If it cannot extract P2's input until after the second round, it will not have enough time to program this output into honest party messages to P2.

<span id="page-7-2"></span>**Lemma 3.** *The simulator* S<sup>2</sup> *for scenario* 2*C must extract b (the input used).*

*Proof (of Lemma [3\)](#page-7-2).* We show this by contradiction. Imagine that S<sup>2</sup> extracts 1 − *b* with non-negligible probability. Then, in the ideal execution, with nonnegligible probability honest P<sup>1</sup> outputs *c*1−*b*.

Since the outputs of honest parties in the ideal execution must be distributed indistinguishably from those in the real execution, it must be that also in the real execution, with non-negligible probability P<sup>1</sup> outputs *c*1−*b*.

{8}------------------------------------------------

Next, consider Scenario 1SH. Let  $\tau_1 = \{\{\mathsf{BC}_i\}_{i \in [3]}, \{\mathsf{msg}_{j \to 1}^1\}_{j \in \{2,3\}}\}$  denote the message transcript that the semi-honest  $\mathcal{P}_1$  receives, comprising of all broadcast messages, and the first-round point-to-point messages from  $\mathcal{P}_2$  and  $\mathcal{P}_3$  to  $\mathcal{P}_1$ . Since everyone (including  $\mathcal{P}_1$ ) behaves honestly, it must hold that  $\mathcal{P}_1$  obtains  $c_b$  as the output.

The semi-honest  $\mathcal{P}_1$  can execute the following attack: take a truncated transcript  $\tau'_1 = \{\{\mathsf{BC}_i\}_{i \in [3]}, \bot, \mathsf{msg}_{3 \to 1}^1\}$ , where the message  $\mathsf{msg}_{2 \to 1}^1$  is dropped. Since  $\tau'_1$  is identically distributed to the transcript received by honest  $\mathcal{P}_1$  in Scenario 2C, the semi-honest  $\mathcal{P}_1$  can compute the output of Scenario 2C. Recall that in this case, we concluded that  $\mathcal{P}_1$  outputs  $c_{1-b}$  with non-negligible probability. This yields a contradiction, as this demonstrates an attack by semi-honest  $\mathcal{P}_1$  where with non-negligible probability it can learn both  $c_0$  and  $c_1$ , which is not allowed as per ideal realization of f.

We conclude that the simulator  $S_2$  (corresponding to corrupt  $\mathcal{P}_2$  in Scenario 2C) must be able to extract b using only  $\mathcal{P}_2$ 's first-round broadcast message (say,  $\mathsf{BC}_2^1$ ) and  $\mathcal{P}_2$ 's first-round point-to-point message to  $\mathcal{P}_3$  (say,  $\mathsf{msg}_{2\to 3}^1$ ). Note that both these are a part of  $\mathcal{P}_3$ 's view in  $\Pi$ .

We now consider Scenario 3SH, where the adversary corrupts  $\mathcal{P}_3$  passively. Let  $(\mathsf{BC}_2^1, \mathsf{msg}_{2\to 3}^1)$  denote  $\mathcal{P}_2$ 's broadcast messages and first-round point-to-point message to  $\mathcal{P}_3$ . The semi-honest  $\mathcal{P}_3$  can run the straight-line simulator  $\mathcal{S}_2$  above on  $(\mathsf{BC}_2^1, \mathsf{msg}_{2\to 3}^1)$  to extract b— which contradicts privacy, as  $\mathcal{P}_3$  must not learn b as per the ideal realization of f.

This concludes the proof.

<span id="page-8-1"></span>**Corollary 1.** Theorem 1 implies that there exist n-party functionalities f such that there does not exist a two-round n-party protocol for f that achieves SIA security for  $t \ge \frac{n}{3}$  in the plain model.

Corollary 1 follows by the standard logic: otherwise, a three-party protocol could be built by having each of the three parties execute the code of a third of the parties in the n-party protocol.

## <span id="page-8-0"></span>3 Oblivious Public Transfer with Intermediaries (OPTI)

In this section, we introduce a new building block called Oblivious Public Transfer with Intermediaries (OPTI). As in standard Oblivious Transfer (OT), a sender S holds a pair of messages  $(x_0, x_1)$  and a receiver R holds a choice bit b, with the transferred value being  $x_b$ . The key difference is that, in OPTI, the output  $x_b$  is public and delivered to all participating parties, referred to as intermediaries.

Although the public output allows S to infer R's choice whenever  $x_0 \neq x_1$ , OPTI ensures *privacy* in the sense that no information about b is revealed to the adversary as long as both S and R are honest. In addition, if the transfer fails, meaning the parties do not obtain the value  $x_b$ , this failure can only be caused by corruption of either S or R, and *identifiability* guarantees that all parties are

{9}------------------------------------------------

able to identify the corrupt party. Finally, as in standard OT, OPTI guarantees sender-privacy: if the sender is honest, the adversary learns nothing about  $x_{1-b}$ .

Looking ahead, OPTI enables the verifiable transfer of private messages (denoted as b above) from a sender to a receiver in our IA protocol, ensuring that the transfer either succeeds or results in unanimous cheater identification.

Below, we give a formal description of OPTI in Section 3.1 and present a 2-round construction realizing OPTI in Section 3.2.

### <span id="page-9-0"></span>3.1 OPTI Definitions

The OPTI protocol involves a sender S, a receiver R, and n-2 additional parties. We do not assign fixed indices for S and R, as different parties may assume these roles. The algorithm executed by party  $\mathcal{P}_k$  in Round r ( $r \in [2]$ ) is denoted  $\mathsf{OPTI}_r^k$ , while the output computation algorithm is denoted by  $\mathsf{OPTI}_\mathsf{output}$  (which is identical for all parties).

Definition 1 (Oblivious Public Transfer with Intermediaries – OPTI). A two-round 1-out-of-2 oblivious public transfer with intermediaries OPTI =  $((OPTI_1^R, OPTI_2^R), (OPTI_1^S, OPTI_2^S), ((OPTI_1^k, OPTI_2^k)_{k \in [n]}), OPTI_{output})$  is an interactive protocol among n parties, where one party plays the role of the receiver R, one party plays the role of the sender S, and every party  $k \in [n]$  (including R and S) plays the role of an intermediary party  $\mathcal{P}_k$ . The receiver R has input  $k \in [n] \setminus \{R,S\}$  have no input. At the end of the protocol, every party  $\mathcal{P}_k$  outputs  $OPTI_{output} = x_b$ . We require that an OPTI protocol satisfies sender privacy (definition 2), privacy (definition 3), and identifiability (definition 4).

Next, we present game-based definitions <sup>7</sup> that formalize the security guarantees of OPTI, namely sender-privacy, privacy and identifiability. In the games below, we use  $\mathsf{msg}_r^k$  and  $\mathsf{msg}_r^{k\to l}$  to denote  $\mathcal{P}_k$ 's rth round (where  $r\in[2]$ ) broadcast and point-to-point communication to  $\mathcal{P}_l$  respectively.

<span id="page-9-1"></span>**Definition 2 (OPTI: Sender Privacy).** An OPTI scheme is sender-private if for security parameter  $\lambda \in \mathbb{N}$ , for every PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , it holds that  $Pr[\mathcal{A} \ wins] \leq \frac{1}{2} + negl(\lambda)$  in the experiment in Figure 1.

<span id="page-9-2"></span> $<sup>^{7}\</sup>mathrm{We}$  choose game-based definitions to highlight the exact security properties that we need.

{10}------------------------------------------------

$$\begin{array}{c} \mathcal{A} & \text{Challenger } \mathcal{C} \\ \hline I \subset \{\mathsf{R}, \mathcal{P}_1, \dots, \mathcal{P}_n\} \setminus \{\mathsf{S}\} \quad (\mathsf{R} \in I, |I| = t) \\ \hline (x_0^0, x_0^1), (x_1^0, x_1^1) & \rightarrow c_0 \leftarrow \{0, 1\}, c_1 \leftarrow \{0, 1\} \\ \hline & \text{Run Round 1 of OPTI using } (x_0^{c_0}, x_1^{c_1}) \\ \hline & \text{as S's input to obtain} \\ & \{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{k \to i}\}_{i \in I})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}} \\ \hline & \{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{i \to k}\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}})\}_{i \in I} & \rightarrow \\ \hline & \{(\mathsf{msg}_2^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{i \to k}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}. \\ \hline & & \{(\mathsf{msg}_2^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{k \to i}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}. \\ \hline & & \\ & \mathcal{A} \text{ wins if } b' = c_0 \oplus c_1 \\ \hline & & \text{Fig. 1: OPTI: Sender Privacy} \\ \hline \end{array}$$

<span id="page-10-1"></span><span id="page-10-0"></span>**Definition 3 (OPTI: Privacy).** An OPTI scheme is private if for security parameter  $\lambda \in \mathbb{N}$ , for every PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , it holds that  $Pr[\mathcal{A} \ wins] \leq \frac{1}{2} + negl(\lambda)$  in the experiment in Figure 2.

{11}------------------------------------------------

 $\begin{array}{c} \mathcal{A} & \text{Challenger } \mathcal{C} \\ \\ I \subset \{\mathcal{P}_1, \dots, \mathcal{P}_n\} \setminus \{\mathsf{R}, \mathsf{S}\} \; (|I| = t) \\ & \longrightarrow \\ c \leftarrow \{0, 1\}, b \leftarrow \{0, 1\} \\ \\ & \text{Run Round 1 of OPTI using } (x_c, x_{1 \oplus c}) \text{ as} \\ \\ & \text{S's input and } b \text{ as R's input to obtain} \\ & \{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{k \to i}\}_{i \in I})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}} \\ \\ & \longrightarrow \\ & \{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{k \to i}\}_{i \in I})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}} \\ \\ & \longrightarrow \\ & \{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{i \to k}\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}})\}_{i \in I} \\ \\ & \longrightarrow \\ & \times \\ \\ & \longrightarrow \\ & \mathcal{A} \text{ wins if } b' = b \\ \\ & \text{Fig. 2: OPTI: Privacy} \\ \\ \\ \end{array}$ 

<span id="page-11-1"></span><span id="page-11-0"></span>**Definition 4 (OPTI: Identifiability).** An OPTI scheme achieves identifiability if for security parameter  $\lambda \in \mathbb{N}$ , for every PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , it holds that  $Pr[\mathcal{A} \ wins] \leq negl(\lambda)$  in the experiment in Figure 3.

{12}------------------------------------------------

Challenger  $\mathcal{C}$  $\mathcal{A}$  $\overline{I \subset \{\mathcal{P}_1, \dots, \mathcal{P}_n\}} \ (|I| = t)$   $\downarrow \mathcal{H} := \{\mathcal{P}_1, \dots, \mathcal{P}_n\}.$ a) If  $S, R \in \mathcal{H} : b, (x_0, x_1)$   $\triangleright$  Run Round 1 of OPTI using  $(x_0, x_1)$  as S's input and b as R's input to obtain  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}.$ b) If  $S \in \mathcal{H}$  and  $R \in I : (x_0, x_1)$  Run Round 1 of OPTI using  $(x_0, x_1)$  as S's input to obtain  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}$ . c) If  $S \in I$  and  $R \in \mathcal{H} : b$   $\triangleright$  Run Round 1 of OPTI using b as R's input to obtain  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}$ . d) If  $S, R \in I : \emptyset$   $\triangleright$  Run Round 1 of OPTI using to obtain  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}.$  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_1^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{k \to i}\}_{i \in I})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}$  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_1^i, \{\mathsf{msg}_1^{i \to k}\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}})\}_{i \in I} \triangleright a\}$  If  $\mathsf{S}, \mathsf{R} \in \mathcal{H}$ : Run Round 2 of OPTI using  $(x_0, x_1)$  as S's input and b as R's input to obtain  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_2^{k'}, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}.$ b) If  $S \in \mathcal{H}$  and  $R \in I$ : Run Round 2 of OPTI using  $(x_0, x_1)$  as S's input to obtain  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_2^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}.$ c) If  $S \in I$  and  $R \in \mathcal{H}$ : Run Round 2 of OPTI using b as R's input to obtain  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_2^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}.$  $\neg \frac{\{(\mathsf{msg}_2^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{k \to i}\}_{i \in I})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}}{\{(\mathsf{msg}_2^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}} \text{ d) If } \mathsf{S}, \mathsf{R} \in I : \mathsf{Run \ Round \ 2 \ of \ OPTI \ to \ obtain } \{(\mathsf{msg}_2^k, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{k \to l}\}_{l \in [n]})\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}.$  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_2^i, \{\mathsf{msg}_2^{i \rightarrow k}\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}})\}_{i \in I}$  $\mathcal{A}$  wins any of the following hold: a)  $S, R \in \mathcal{H} \text{ and } \exists \mathcal{P}_k \in \mathcal{H} \text{ s.t. } \mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k \in \{\mathsf{abort}, \mathsf{abort}_S, \mathsf{abort}_R, x\} \text{ for } x \neq x_b,$ b)  $S \in \mathcal{H}$  and  $R \in I$  and  $\exists \mathcal{P}_k \in \mathcal{H}$  s.t.  $\mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k \in \{\mathsf{abort}, \mathsf{abort}_S, x\}$  for  $x \notin \mathcal{E}$  $\{x_0, x_1\},\$ c)  $S \in I$  and  $R \in \mathcal{H}$  and  $\exists \mathcal{P}_k \in \mathcal{H}$  s.t.  $\mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k \in \{\mathsf{abort}, \mathsf{abort}_R\},$ d)  $S, R \in I \text{ and } \exists \mathcal{P}_k \in \mathcal{H} \text{ s.t. } \mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k = \mathsf{abort},$ e)  $\exists \mathcal{P}_k, \mathcal{P}_l \in \mathcal{H} \text{ s.t. } \mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k \neq \mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^l$ Fig. 3: OPTI: Identifiability

<span id="page-12-0"></span>13

{13}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-13-0"></span>**3.2 OPTI Protocol**

In this section, we present a two-round construction that realizes OPTI. At a high level, in the first round both the sender S and receiver R threshold-share their inputs—(*x*0*, x*1) and *b* respectively—with threshold (*t* + 1) among the intermediaries. To facilitate verifiable transfer of these shares, we make S and R additionally broadcast commitments of these shares, while sending the corresponding openings privately to the intended recipients.

The key idea is that each intermediary P*<sup>k</sup>* can now locally compute a share of *x<sup>b</sup>* using its shares of *x*0, *x*1, and *b* via the relation

$$\langle x_b \rangle_k = (1 - [b]_k) \cdot [x_0]_k + [b]_k \cdot [x_1]_k$$

where [*m*]*<sup>k</sup>* denotes a threshold-(*t* + 1) share of *m* held by party P*k*, and ⟨*m*⟩*<sup>k</sup>* denotes a threshold-(2*t* + 1) share of *m*.

Several challenges arise in making this approach work. Firstly, the above computation does not directly yield a fully private threshold-(2*t* + 1)-sharing of *xb*, so we use the standard technique of randomizing it by adding a (2*t* + 1) sharing of 0 (generated by S in the first round).

Second and most crucially, reconstructing *x<sup>b</sup>* from these shares requires at least (2*t* + 1) parties to provide their shares ⟨*xb*⟩*k*, but only parties that successfully received shares (consistent with the relevant public commitments) from both the sender and receiver can do so. Note that when no cheater is identified, we are guaranteed that at least *n* − *t* ≥ (2*t* + 1) parties successfully received shares from S, and at least *n* − *t* ≥ (2*t* + 1) parties successfully received shares from R. This is because any party complained about by more than *t* participants can be unanimously identified as corrupt. However, this only guarantees that *n* − *t* − *t* ≥ *t* + 1 parties are happy with both S and R. This unfortunately does not suffice for robust reconstruction of a degree-2*t* shared value, which we require when no cheater is identified.

To address this, we leverage the fact that if S is corrupt, the adversary is allowed to learn all of the inputs: *x*0, *x*1, and *b*. If a party P*<sup>k</sup>* doesn't hear from S (but hears from R), it triggers the public release of all its shares: in the second round, it broadcasts its share [*b*]*k*, together with a secret key the corresponding public key for which it had published in the previous round. Simultaneously in the second round — S must broadcast encryptions of [*x*0]*<sup>k</sup>* and [*x*1]*<sup>k</sup>* to this public key.

These ciphertexts are only decrypted if P*k*, unhappy with S, publishes the secret key and [*b*]*k*; if it does, this suffices for everyone to compute the share ⟨*xb*⟩*<sup>k</sup>* via the relation stated above. Notably, this approach enables us to utilize the shares of every party who is happy with the receiver, which — unless the receiver is identified as corrupt — gives us enough shares to reconstruct *xb*.

To summarize, our protocol proceeds as follows:

1. In the first round, both S and R distribute degree-*t* shares of their inputs. They broadcast commitments to these shares and privately send the corresponding openings to the intended recipients. In addition, all parties publish their public keys.

{14}------------------------------------------------

- 2. In the second round, parties that received shares from both S and R (denoted by SS*,*R) compute their degree-2*t* shares and broadcast them along with proofs of correctness. Moreover, S broadcasts encryptions of the degree-*t* shares intended for each party P*<sup>k</sup>* under P*k*'s public key. Each P*<sup>k</sup>* broadcasts her secret key and the share received from R *only if* P*<sup>k</sup>* ∈ S<sup>R</sup> (i.e., she received a share from R but not from S in the first round).
- 3. To compute the output, parties retrieve the degree-*t* shares corresponding to P*<sup>k</sup>* ∈ S<sup>R</sup> (by decrypting the ciphertexts using the secret key broadcast by P*k*) and compute the degree-2*t* shares on behalf of P*k*. These are combined with the shares received via broadcast from SS*,*<sup>R</sup> to reconstruct *xb*.

Informally, the above protocol design ensures that the protocol successfully computes the output whenever no party is identified as cheating because of the following reason: An adversary attempting to avoid detection can withhold shares from at most *t* honest parties on behalf of a corrupt S and at most *t* honest parties on behalf of a corrupt R. The most delicate situation arises when these two sets are disjoint. In that case, up to 2*t* (among ≥ 2*t* + 1) honest parties may be missing some shares, preventing them from locally computing their degree-2*t* shares. However, the adversary gains no real advantage by dropping shares on behalf of S. This is because the protocol design forces the potentially corrupt S (if it wishes to avoid detection) to broadcast encrypted versions of all shares, and the degree-2*t* shares of honest parties that received valid shares from R can still be reconstructed using these encryptions. Consequently, the only degree-2*t* shares that may remain unavailable are those corresponding to parties unhappy with R – but since there can be at most only *t* such parties, this does not suffice to abort reconstruction. This completes a high-level overview of our construction.

In our construction, we use multi-string NIZKs (Appendix [A.4\)](#page-35-0) to enable parties to prove the correctness of their actions. In more detail, each party publishes its own CRS in the first round, and these strings are combined to form a joint CRS. As long as a majority of the individual CRS are generated honestly, proofs produced with respect to the joint CRS satisfy the standard zero-knowledge guarantees. The corresponding NIZK relations are defined below.

*Relations for the mNIZKs.* We utilize two relations, described below: Rsh, for a proof of consistent committed-and-encrypted sharing (with configurable threshold *r*); and Rcomp, for the proof of the consistent evaluation of the equation (1 − *b*)*x*<sup>0</sup> + *bx*<sup>1</sup> on a set of committed shares.

$$\mathcal{R}_{\mathsf{sh}} = \left\{ \left. \begin{aligned} \phi &= \left. \left( r, \{ c_k, ct_k, \mathsf{pk}_k \}_{k \in [n]} \right) \right| \\ w &= \left. \left( \{ o_k, \rho_{\mathsf{enc},k} \}_{k \in [n]}, \rho_{\mathsf{sh}} \right) \end{aligned} \right| \begin{cases} ([a]_1, \dots, [a]_n) \leftarrow \mathsf{share}(a, n, r; \rho_{\mathsf{sh}}) \\ \forall k \in [n] : ct_k \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}_k, [a]_k; \rho_{\mathsf{enc},k}) \\ \forall k \in [n] : [a]_k \leftarrow \mathsf{Decom}(o_k, c_k) \end{cases} \right\}$$

{15}------------------------------------------------

$$\mathcal{R}_{\mathsf{comp}} = \left\{ \begin{aligned} \phi &= \left( \langle x_b \rangle_k, c_k^b, c_k^{x_0}, c_k^{x_1}, c_k^0 \right) \\ w &= \begin{pmatrix} (([b]_k, o_k^b), ([x_0]_k, o_k^{x_0}), \\ ([x_1]_k, o_k^{x_1}), (\langle 0 \rangle_k, o_k^0) \end{pmatrix} & \begin{bmatrix} [b]_k \leftarrow \mathsf{Decom}(o_k^b, c_k^b) \\ [x_1]_k \leftarrow \mathsf{Decom}(o_k^{x_1}, c_k^{x_0}) \\ \langle 0 \rangle_k \leftarrow \mathsf{Decom}(o_k^0, c_k^0) \\ \langle x_b \rangle_k &= (1 - [b]_k) \cdot [x_0]_k + \\ [b]_k \cdot [x_1]_k + \langle 0 \rangle_k \\ \end{aligned} \right. \right.$$

Protocol Description. The formal description of our construction  $\mathsf{OPTI} = ((\mathsf{OPTI}_1^\mathsf{R}, \mathsf{OPTI}_2^\mathsf{R}), (\mathsf{OPTI}_1^\mathsf{S}, \mathsf{OPTI}_2^\mathsf{S}), ((\mathsf{OPTI}_1^k, \mathsf{OPTI}_2^k)_{k \in [n]}), \mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}})$  appears in Figure 4.

## OPTI Protocol

#### **Building Blocks:**

- Shamir secret sharing (share, reconstruct), as described in Appendix A.3
- A secure commitment scheme (Com, Decom), as described in Appendix A.2
- A secure public key encryption scheme (KeyGen, Enc, Dec, KeyVer), as described in Appendix A.1
- A multi-string NIZK scheme (mNIZK.Gen, Prove, Verify), as described in Appendix A.4

## $OPTI_1^R$ :

- 1. Compute  $([b]_1, \ldots, [b]_n) \leftarrow \mathtt{share}(b, n, t+1; \rho^b)$ .
- 2. For  $k \in [n]$ , compute  $(o_k^b, c_k^b) \leftarrow \mathsf{Com}([b]_k)$ .
- 3. Send  $([b]_k, o_k^b)$  to  $\mathcal{P}_k$  and broadcast  $\{c_k^b\}_{k \in [n]}$ .

{16}------------------------------------------------

## $OPTI_1^S$ :

- 1. Compute  $([x_0]_1, \ldots, [x_0]_n) \leftarrow \text{share}(x_0, n, t+1; \rho^{x_0}).$ Compute  $([x_1]_1, ..., [x_1]_n) \leftarrow \text{share}(x_1, n, t + 1; \rho^{x_1}).$ Compute  $(\langle 0 \rangle_1, \dots, \langle 0 \rangle_n) \leftarrow \mathtt{share}(0, n, 2t + 1; \rho^0).$
- 2. For  $k \in [n]$ :
  - Compute  $(o_k^{x_0}, c_k^{x_0}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Com}([x_0]_k)$ .
  - Compute  $(o_k^{x_1}, c_k^{x_1}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Com}([x_1]_k)$ . Compute  $(o_k^0, c_k^0) \leftarrow \mathsf{Com}(\langle 0 \rangle_k)$ .

  - Send  $(([x_0]_k, o_k^{x_0}), ([x_1]_k, o_k^{x_1}), (\langle 0 \rangle_k, o_k^0)$  to  $\mathcal{P}_k$ .
- 3. Broadcast  $\{(c_k^{x_0}, c_k^{x_1}, c_k^0, )\}_{k \in [n]}$ .

## $\mathsf{OPTI}_1^k$ :

- 1. Compute  $(\mathsf{sk}_k, \mathsf{pk}_k) \leftarrow \mathsf{KeyGen}(\rho_k^{\mathsf{gen}})$ .
- 2. Compute  $\operatorname{crs}_k \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK}.\mathsf{Gen}(\rho_k^{\mathsf{crs}})$ .
- 3. Broadcast  $(pk_k, crs_k)$ .

## $OPTI_2^R$ :

- 1. Set  $\overline{\mathtt{crs}} = (\mathtt{crs}_1, \dots, \mathtt{crs}_n)$ .
- 2. Set  $\phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^b = \{c_k^b\}_k, w_{\mathsf{sh}}^b = (\{[b]_k\}_k, \{o_k^b\}_k, \rho^b).$ 3. Broadcast  $\pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^b \leftarrow \mathsf{Prove}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^b, w_{\mathsf{sh}}^b).$

# $OPTI_2^S$ :

- 1. For  $k \in [n]$ :

  - Compute  $ct_k^{x_0} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}_k, [x_0]_k; \rho_{\mathsf{enc},k}^{x_0}).$  Compute  $ct_k^{x_1} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}_k, [x_1]_k; \rho_{\mathsf{enc},k}^{x_1}).$
  - Compute  $ct_k^0 \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}_k, \langle 0 \rangle_k; \rho_{\mathsf{enc},k}^0)$ .
- 2. Set  $\overline{\mathtt{crs}} \leftarrow (\mathtt{crs}_1, \dots, \mathtt{crs}_n)$ .
- $(t + 1, \{(c_k^{x_0}, ct_k^{x_0}, \mathsf{pk}_k)\}_{k \in [n]}), w_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_0}$  $\phi_{\sf sh}^{x_0}$ 3. Set = = $(\{(o_k^{x_0}, \rho_{\mathsf{enc},k}^{x_0})\}_k, \rho^{x_0})$
- and broadcast  $\pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_0} \leftarrow \mathsf{Prove}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_0}, w_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_0}).$ Set  $\phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1} = (t + 1, \{(c_k^{x_1}, ct_k^{x_1}, \mathsf{pk}_k)\}_{k \in [n]}), w_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1}$ 4. Set  $\phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1} = (t + 1, \{(c_k^{x_1}, ct_k^{x_1}, \mathsf{pk}_k)\}_{k \in [n]}), w_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1} = (\{(o_k^{x_1}, \rho_{\mathsf{enc},k}^{x_1})\}_k, \rho_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1})$ and broadcast  $\pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1} \leftarrow \mathsf{Prove}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1}, w_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1}).$ 5. Set  $\phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^0 = (2t + 1, \{(c_k^0, ct_k^0, \mathsf{pk}_k)\}_{k \in [n]}), w_{\mathsf{sh}}^0 = (\{(o_k^0, \rho_{\mathsf{enc},k}^0)\}_k, \rho_{\mathsf{sh}}^0)$ and broadcast  $\pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^0 \leftarrow \mathsf{Prove}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^0, w_{\mathsf{sh}}^0).$ =

{17}------------------------------------------------

## $\mathsf{OPTI}_2^k$ :

- 1. Set  $\overline{\mathtt{crs}} \leftarrow (\mathtt{crs}_1, \dots, \mathtt{crs}_n)$ .
- 2. Party k who received valid shares and openings from both S and R:
  - (a) Broadcast  $\langle x_b \rangle_k = (1 [b]_k) \cdot [x_0]_k + [b]_k \cdot [x_1]_k + \langle 0 \rangle_k$ .
  - (b) Set  $\phi_{\mathsf{comp}}^{\langle x_b \rangle_k} = (\langle x_b \rangle_k, c_k^b, c_k^{x_0}, c_k^{x_1}, c_k^0),$   $w_{\mathsf{comp}}^{\langle x_b \rangle_k} = (([b]_k, o_k^b), ([x_0]_k, o_k^{x_0}), ([x_1]_k, o_k^{x_1}), (\langle 0 \rangle_k, o_k^0)).$ (c) Broadcast  $\pi_{\mathsf{comp}}^{\langle x_b \rangle_k} \leftarrow \mathsf{Prove}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{comp}}^{\langle x_b \rangle_k}, w_{\mathsf{comp}}^{\langle x_b \rangle_k}).$
- 3. Party k who received valid shares and openings from R only:
  - (a) Broadcast (( $[b]_k, o_k^b$ ),  $\mathsf{sk}_k$ ,  $\mathsf{abort}_\mathsf{S}$ ).
- 4. Party k who received valid shares and openings from S only:
  - (a) Broadcast abort<sub>R</sub>.
- 5. Party k who did not receive valid shares and openings from S or R:
  - (a) Broadcast (abort<sub>S</sub>, abort<sub>R</sub>).

## OPTI<sub>output</sub>:

- 1. If over t parties sent aborts or abort, output the corresponding abort.
- 2. Check  $Verify(\overline{\tt crs}, \phi^b_{\sf sh}, \pi^b_{\sf sh}) = 1$  and output abort<sub>R</sub> otherwise.
- 3. Check the following:
  - $\begin{array}{l} \ \operatorname{Verify}(\overline{\mathtt{crs}},\phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_0},\pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_0}) = 1 \\ \ \operatorname{Verify}(\overline{\mathtt{crs}},\phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1},\pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1}) = 1 \\ \ \operatorname{Verify}(\overline{\mathtt{crs}},\phi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{0},\pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{0}) = 1 \end{array}$

Output aborts if any of the checks fail.

- 4. Let  $S_S$ ,  $S_R$ ,  $S_{S,R}$ ,  $S_\emptyset$  denote sets of indices of parties who aborted blaming receiver, who aborted blaming the sender S, who provided output and who aborted blaming both, respectively.
- 5. For  $k \in \mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{S},\mathsf{R}}$ : check  $\mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}},\phi_{\mathsf{comp}}^{\langle x_b \rangle_k},\pi_{\mathsf{comp}}^{\langle x_b \rangle_k}) = 1$  and remove kfrom  $S_{S,R}$  otherwise.
- 6. For  $l \in \mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{R}}$ :
  - Check  $\mathsf{Decom}(o_l^b, c_l^b) = [b]_l$  and  $\mathsf{KeyVer}(\mathsf{pk}_l, \mathsf{sk}_l) = 1$ , and remove l from  $S_R$  otherwise (moving on to the next l).
  - Compute  $[x_0]_l \leftarrow \mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk}_l, ct_l^{x_0})$ .
  - Compute  $[x_1]_l \leftarrow \mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk}_l, ct_l^{x_1})$ .
  - Compute  $\langle 0 \rangle_l \leftarrow \mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk}_l, ct_l^0)$ .
  - Compute  $\langle x_b \rangle_l = (1 [b]_l) \cdot [x_0]_l + [b]_l \cdot [x_1]_l + \langle 0 \rangle_l$ .
- 7. Output  $x_b \leftarrow \text{reconstruct}(\{\langle x_b \rangle_k\}_{k \in \mathcal{S}_{S,R}}, \{\langle x_b \rangle_l\}_{l \in \mathcal{S}_R}).$

{18}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-18-2"></span><span id="page-18-1"></span>Theorem 2. The OPTI construction in Figure 4 is secure as long as (share, reconstruct) is a secure secret sharing scheme (Appendix A.3), (Com, Decom) is a secure commitment scheme (Appendix A.2), (KeyGen, Enc, Dec, KeyVer) is a secure public key encryption scheme (Appendix A.1), and (mNIZK.Gen, Prove, Verify), is a secure multi-string NIZK scheme (Appendix A.4).

### <span id="page-18-0"></span>3.3 Proof of Security

We prove Theorem 2 by proving each of its properties separately.

Claim. The OPTI construction in Figure 4 is sender-private (Definition 2).

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{H}$  and I denote the sets of honest and corrupt parties, respectively. We assume a rushing adversary, meaning that in each round the adversary sends its messages only after receiving the messages of the honest parties, as in the security game.

In the first round,  $\mathcal{A}$  obtains the sender's input shares held by the corrupt parties,  $\{([x_0]_k, [x_1]_k, \langle 0 \rangle_k)\}_{k \in I}$  together with the corresponding openings  $\{(o_k^{x_0}, o_k^{x_1}, o_k^0)\}_{k \in I}$  and the commitments to all parties' shares,  $\{(c_k^{x_0}, c_k^{x_1}, c_k^0)\}_{k \in [n]}$ . Learning honest parties' shares would require breaking the hiding property of the commitment scheme. Since  $\mathcal{A}$  thus learns only the t corrupt parties' shares, it follows from security of the secret sharing scheme that this reveals no information about the underlying secret and therefore which two out of the four inputs provided earlier were used.

In the second round,  $\mathcal{A}$  learns proofs of correctness for all committed and encrypted sharings,  $\{\pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_0}, \pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^{x_1}, \pi_{\mathsf{sh}}^0\}$  and encryptions of shares,  $\{(ct_k^{x_0}, ct_k^{x_1}, ct_k^0)\}_{k \in [n]}$ . These proofs reveal no information due to the zero-knowledge property of the underlying mNIZK scheme. The encryptions to honest parties reveal no information due to the CPA-security of the encryption scheme. (Note that since the sender is honest in this game, no honest party will reveal its decryption key.)

The adversary further learns the honest parties' output shares  $\{\langle x_b \rangle_k\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}$  and the corresponding mNIZK proofs  $\{\pi_{\mathsf{comp}}^{\langle x_b \rangle_k}\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}$ . The former does not provide the adversary any advantage to extract information beyond  $x_b$  (which corresponds to  $x_b^{c_b}$  in the sender privacy game), despite the fact that shares of b may be adversarially chosen, since computation of  $\langle x_b \rangle_k$  involves masking with a threshold-(2t+1) share of 0. More specifically, the adversary does not learn any information about the honest party's shares corresponding to  $x_{1-b}^{c_{1-b}}$ . Next, due to the zero-knowledge property,  $\mathcal{A}$  does not learn anything from the mNIZK proofs, beyond the correctness of the computation.

We also point out that the adversary cannot influence the protocol through the messages sent by the corrupt parties to learn additional information. In the first round, intermediary parties broadcast public keys and crs strings. The public keys are used only to encrypt shares of values already known to the adversary, and thus, malformed keys do not provide any advantage. Moreover, 

{19}------------------------------------------------

the multi-string NIZK scheme preserves the zero-knowledge property even if up to  $t\ \, {\tt crs}\ \, {\tt strings}$  are malformed or have trapdoors known to the adverary. This concludes the proof.

Claim. OPTI construction in figure 4 is private (Definition 3).

Proof. The arguments above already establish the privacy of the sender's input. In the privacy game, suppose that the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  can guess the order in which the inputs it provided were used as the sender's input in the protocol with probability at least  $\frac{1}{2} + \lambda$ , for some non-negligible  $\lambda$ . Then, by the previous arguments, one can construct an algorithm that breaks either the security of the secret-sharing scheme, the hiding property of the commitment scheme, the zero-knowledge property of the mNIZK scheme, or the CPA security of the encryption scheme. With similar arguments, one can also show that the receiver's communication to the adversary also does not reveal any information about b. This follows from security of secret sharing, since the adversary never learns more than t shares of b. In particular, this holds because of the hiding property of the commitment scheme and the fact that when the sender is honest, an honest  $\mathcal{P}_k$  would never reveal its share  $[b]_k$ . This completes the proof.

Claim. OPTI construction in figure 4 achieves identifiability (Definition 4).

Proof. Let  $\mathcal{H}$  and I denote the sets of honest and corrupt parties, respectively. First, we show that the output of an honest party  $\mathcal{P}_k$  is never abort<sub>i</sub> (except with negligible probability), where  $i \in \mathcal{H}$  could denote S or R. We note that an honest  $\mathcal{P}_k$  outputs abort<sub>i</sub> only if either (1) more than t parties broadcast abort<sub>i</sub>, or (2) a multi-string NIZK proof generated by  $\mathcal{P}_i$  fails to verify. Case (1) cannot occur for an honest  $\mathcal{P}_i$ . This is because all honest parties verify their share openings against the public commitments, which would succeed for commitments generated by an honest  $\mathcal{P}_i$  (due to correctness of the commitment scheme). Thus, there can be at most t complaints which could arise from corrupt parties. Case (2) cannot occur as well, due to the completeness of the multi-string NIZK, which holds even when up to t crs strings are chosen adversarially. Next, we analyze each of the cases of the identifiability game in Figure 3.

Case (a). When S and R are honest, given the arguments above, it remains to show that honest parties never output  $x \neq x_b$ . In this setting,  $|S_{S,R}| \geq 2t + 1$  holds (since all honest parties belong to  $S_{S,R}$ ) and their 2t-degree shares suffice to reconstruct  $x_b$ . The completeness of the multi-string NIZK proofs generated by honest parties in  $S_{S,R}$ , together with the soundness of the proofs generated by potentially corrupt parties in  $S_{S,R}$ , ensures that the shares used by honest parties for reconstruction of  $x_b$  are correct. Finally, even if some corrupt parties claim membership in  $S_R$  and broadcast a secret key  $\mathsf{sk}_l$  along with a share  $[b]_l$  for  $l \in I$ , the binding property of the commitment scheme and the key-verifiability property of the underlying encryption scheme ensure that only correct shares are used for reconstruction. Corrupt parties in  $S_{S,R}$  or  $S_\emptyset$  are unable to abort the reconstruction of  $x_b$  by the protocol design. This completes the analysis of case (a), showing that  $x_b$  is always reconstructed correctly.

{20}------------------------------------------------

To avoid redundancy, we do not analyze cases (b) and (c) separately, as they are subsumed by cases (a) and (d).

*Case (d).* We argue that either a corrupt party is identified as the cheater or a non-⊥ output is obtained by all honest parties. First, we observe that the adversary cannot send incorrectly computed messages in the first round, since the correctness of these messages is proven via mNIZK in the second round, and the soundness of mNIZK guarantees that such proofs can be generated only for correctly computed messages. Consequently, the only remaining room for misbehavior is the omission of private messages, or equivalently, sending invalid openings privately (that do not verify against the broadcast commitments), which can be treated as omissions for simplicity.

We now address the omission of messages. Let us denote the sizes of the following sets by

$$|\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{S},\mathsf{R}}| = t_{\mathsf{S},\mathsf{R}}, \quad |\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{R}}| = t_{\mathsf{R}}, \quad |\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{S}}| = t_{\mathsf{S}}, \quad |\mathcal{S}_{\emptyset}| = t_{\emptyset}.$$

These values satisfy the following conditions:

- 1. *t*S*,*<sup>R</sup> + *t*<sup>R</sup> + *t*<sup>S</sup> + *t*<sup>∅</sup> = *n* ≥ 3*t* + 1
- 2. ∀*t<sup>i</sup>* for *t<sup>i</sup>* ∈ {*t*R*, t*S*, t*∅} =⇒ *t<sup>i</sup>* ≤ *t* (otherwise the output is abort<sup>S</sup> or abortR)
- 3. *t*<sup>R</sup> + *t*<sup>∅</sup> ≤ *t*, *t*<sup>S</sup> + *t*<sup>∅</sup> ≤ *t* (otherwise the output is abort<sup>S</sup> or abortR)

This gives us a lower bound on *t*R:

$$t_{\mathsf{S},\mathsf{R}} + t_{\mathsf{R}} + t_{\mathsf{S}} + t_{\emptyset} \ge 3t + 1$$

$$\implies t_{\mathsf{R}} \ge 3t + 1 - t_{\mathsf{S},\mathsf{R}} - (t_{\mathsf{S}} + t_{\emptyset}) \ge 2t + 1 - t_{\mathsf{S},\mathsf{R}}$$

Recall that the final value ⟨*xb*⟩ is obtained by combining two multiplications of shares of degree *t*, which requires at least 2*t*+ 1 shares. We receive *t*S*,*<sup>R</sup> shares of ⟨*xb*⟩ from parties in SS*,*<sup>R</sup> directly. Additionally, we retrieve the ⟨*xb*⟩ shares of parties in S<sup>R</sup> as follows: By decrypting the ciphertexts broadcast by S in the second round, using the secret key broadcast by the parties in S<sup>R</sup> allows us to obtain the shares [*x*0], [*x*1], ⟨0⟩ of parties in SR. Recall that parties in S<sup>R</sup> also broadcast the share [*b*] (with the corresponding opening). Now, [*x*0], [*x*1], [*b*], and ⟨0⟩, for the parties in S<sup>R</sup> can be locally combined into *t*<sup>R</sup> additional shares of ⟨*xb*⟩. As *t*S*,*<sup>R</sup> + *t*<sup>R</sup> ≥ 2*t* + 1, this yields a sufficient number of final shares to reconstruct the output. Any cheating by intermediary parties in the second round is handled identically to the case a).

Finally, we argue that all honest parties output the same value when running OPTIoutput. Any attempt to cheat or send malformed private messages is detected via the publicly verifiable commitments and mNIZK proofs. In addition, the correctness of the broadcast channel guarantees that all broadcast messages are identical for every honest party. This concludes the proof.

## <span id="page-20-0"></span>**4 Definition of MPC with Identifiable Abort**

We follow the real-world/ideal-world simulation paradigm and we adopt the security model of Cohen, Garay and Zikas [\[CGZ20\]](#page-30-11).

{21}------------------------------------------------

Real world. An n-party protocol  $\Pi = (\mathcal{P}_1, \dots, \mathcal{P}_n)$  is an n-tuple of probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) interactive Turing machines (ITMs), where each party  $\mathcal{P}_i$  is initialized with input  $x_i \in \{0,1\}^*$  and random coins  $\rho_i \in \{0,1\}^*$ . We let  $\mathcal{A}$  denote a special PPT ITM that represents the adversary and that is initialized with input that contains the identities of the corrupt parties, their respective private inputs and an auxiliary input.

The protocol is executed in rounds (i.e., the protocol is synchronous). Each round consists of a send phase and a receive phase, where parties can respectively send and receive messages. The communication in each round happens via a broadcast channel. During the execution of the protocol, the corrupt parties receive arbitrary instructions from the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , while the honest parties faithfully follow the instructions of the protocol. We consider the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  to be rushing, i.e., during every round, the adversary can see the messages the honest parties sent before producing messages for corrupt parties.

At the end of the protocol execution, the honest parties produce their outputs, and the adversary returns an arbitrary function of the corrupt parties' view. The view of a party during the execution consists of its input, random coins and the messages it sees during the execution.

**Definition 5 (Real-world execution).** Let  $\Pi = (\mathcal{P}_1, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_n)$  be an n-party protocol and let  $\mathcal{I} \subseteq [n]$ , of size at most t, denote the set of indices of the parties corrupted by  $\mathcal{A}$ . The joint execution of  $\Pi$  under  $(\mathcal{A}, \mathcal{I})$  in the real world, on input vector  $\mathbf{x} = (x_1, \ldots, x_n)$ , auxiliary input aux and the unary representation of the security parameter  $1^{\lambda}$ , denoted  $REAL_{\Pi,\mathcal{I},\mathcal{A}(\mathsf{aux})}(\mathbf{x}, 1^{\lambda})$ , is defined as the output vector of  $\mathcal{P}_1, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_n$  and  $\mathcal{A}(\mathsf{aux})$  resulting from the protocol interaction.

Ideal world.

**Definition 6 (Ideal-world Computation).** Let  $f: (\{0,1\}^*)^n \to (\{0,1\}^*)^n$  be an n-party function and let  $\mathcal{I} \subseteq [n]$ , of size at most t, be the set of indices of the corrupt parties. Then, the joint ideal execution of f under  $(\mathcal{S}, \mathcal{I})$  on input vector  $\mathbf{x} = (x_1, \dots, x_n)$ , auxiliary input aux to  $\mathcal{S}$  and the unary representation of the security parameter  $1^{\lambda}$ , denoted  $IDEAL_{f,\mathcal{I},\mathcal{S}(\mathsf{aux})}^{\mathsf{id-abort}}(\mathbf{x}, 1^{\lambda})$ , is defined as the output vector of  $\mathcal{P}_1, \dots, \mathcal{P}_n$  and  $\mathcal{S}$  resulting from the following ideal process.

- 1. Parties send inputs to trusted party: An honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$  sends its input  $x_i$  to the trusted party. The simulator  $\mathcal{S}$  may send to the trusted party arbitrary inputs for the corrupt parties. Let  $x_i'$  be the value actually sent as the input of party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ .
- 2. Trusted party speaks to simulator: The trusted party computes  $(y_1, \ldots, y_n) = f(x'_1, \ldots, x'_n)$ . If there are no corrupt parties proceed to step 3. Otherwise, the trusted party sends  $\{y_i\}_{i\in\mathcal{I}}$  to  $\mathcal{S}$ .
- <span id="page-21-0"></span>3. Simulator S responds to the trusted party: If it chooses to abort, the simulator S can select a corrupt party  $i^* \in \mathcal{I}$  who will be blamed, and send (abort,  $i^*$ ) to the trusted party. If it does, we take  $K = [n] \setminus \mathcal{I}$ . Trusted party answers parties:
  - (a) If the trusted party got abort from the simulator S,

{22}------------------------------------------------

- *i. It sets the abort message* abortmsg = (⊥*, i*<sup>∗</sup> )*.*
- *ii. The trusted party sends y<sup>j</sup> to every party* P*<sup>j</sup> , j* ∈ [*n*]\K*. The trusted party sends* abortmsg *to every party* P*<sup>j</sup> , j* ∈ K*.*
- *(b) Otherwise, it sends y to every* P*<sup>j</sup> , j* ∈ [*n*]*.*
- *4.* Outputs*: Honest parties always output the message received from the trusted party, while the corrupt parties output nothing. The simulator* S *outputs an arbitrary function of the initial inputs* {*xi*}*i*∈I*, the messages received by the corrupt parties from the trusted party and its auxiliary input.*

*Remark 1.* The ideal-world computation for unanimous abort (UA) security is identical to the above, except that in Step 3, an aborting S does not provide a corrupt party index *i* ∗ . Consequently, the abortmsg is simply ⊥ in this case.

*Security Definitions.* Now that we have described the real-world and the idealworld experiment, we are ready to state the formal definition.

<span id="page-22-1"></span>**Definition 7.** *Let f* : ({0*,* 1} ∗ ) *<sup>n</sup>* → ({0*,* 1} ∗ ) *<sup>n</sup> be an n-party function. A protocol Π t-securely computes the function f with* id*-*abort *security if for every PPT realworld adversary* A *with auxiliary input* aux*, there exists a PPT simulator* S *such that for every* I ⊆ [*n*] *of size at most t, for all* **x** ∈ ({0*,* 1} ∗ ) *<sup>n</sup>, for all λ* ∈ **N***, it holds that*

$$REAL_{\Pi,\mathcal{I},\mathcal{A}(\mathsf{aux})}(\mathbf{x},1^{\lambda}) \approx_{\mathrm{c}} IDEAL_{f,\mathcal{I},\mathcal{S}(\mathsf{aux})}^{\mathsf{id-abort}}(\mathbf{x},1^{\lambda})$$

#### <span id="page-22-0"></span>**5 Construction of Two-Round MPC with IA for** *t < <sup>n</sup>* **3**

Our approach to constructing our two-round IA protocol is to lift any tworound UA protocol in the plain model *ΠUA* (such as [\[ACGJ18\]](#page-29-2)) to one that supports cheater identification. Our first step is to observe that the correctness of broadcast messages can be enforced via zero-knowledge proofs. As our protocol must operate in the plain model, we can not make use of standard NIZKs directly. Instead, we rely on multi-string NIZKs where the CRS is jointly sampled as part of the protocol: in the first round, each party publishes a CRS, and in the second round, proofs are generated with respect to the resulting joint CRS. Although proofs for the broadcast messages of both Rounds 1 and 2 can only be sent in the second round, this is still sufficient for cheater identification.

The main challenge is in detecting misbehavior in private channels in the first round (the second round can use only broadcast without loss of generality as discussed earlier). Consider a scenario where a corrupt P*<sup>j</sup>* drops its private message to P*<sup>i</sup>* in the first round. Whereas a UA protocol can handle this by having P*<sup>i</sup>* simply broadcast 'abort' in the second round (leading all parties to abort unanimously) the IA setting requires more care. This is because other honest parties cannot tell whether P*<sup>i</sup>* or P*<sup>j</sup>* is corrupt in this scenario. We therefore require a mechanism that either identifies the cheating party in such scenarios, or enables the protocol to proceed without resolving this conflict explicitly—for instance by enabling P*<sup>i</sup>* to compute its Round 2 message despite the missing private message.

{23}------------------------------------------------

We construct such a mechanism as follows: Each party  $\mathcal{P}_i$  prepares a garbled circuit  $GC_i$ , which garbles its next-message function for Round 2 of the protocol  $\Pi_{UA}$ . In more detail, the next-message function circuit takes as input  $\mathcal{P}_i$ 's private input and randomness, the Round 1 broadcast messages, and the Round 1 private messages received by  $\mathcal{P}_i$  (denoted as  $\{\mathsf{msg}_{j\to i}^1\}_{j\in[n]}$ ) and computes  $\mathcal{P}_i$ 's second round message of  $\Pi_{UA}$  accordingly. For all inputs except the private messages,  $\mathcal{P}_i$  can directly provide the corresponding wire labels. However, this may not be possible for the wire labels associated with private-message bits (e.g. as in the scenario above).

It is at this stage that we employ OPTI (Section 3) for verifiable transfer of the wire labels corresponding to the private message. As an illustrative example, consider a situation in which the first round of the protocol requires  $\mathcal{P}_j$  to send a one bit message  $\mathsf{msg}_{j\to i}$  to  $\mathcal{P}_i$  over their shared private channel. Let  $K^0$  and  $K^1$  be the labels on the corresponding wire in  $\mathsf{GC}_i$ . In the event that  $\mathcal{P}_j$  withholds  $\mathsf{msg}_{j\to i}$  from  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , we ensure that OPTI delivers this message instead. In particular  $\mathcal{P}_i$  plays the sender and provides both labels  $(K^0, K^1)$  as its input, and  $\mathcal{P}_j$  plays the receiver with  $\mathsf{msg}_{j\to i}$  as its input. OPTI guarantees that either the correct label  $K^{\mathsf{msg}_{j\to i}}$  is reconstructed publicly by all parties, or a cheating party is identified.

Therefore, if no cheater is identified, all first-round private-message bits are correctly incorporated into the garbled circuits. We additionally use multi-string NIZKs to prove correctness of garbling. As a result, every party can evaluate the garbled circuits of all parties and obtain the corresponding Round 2 messages of  $\Pi_{UA}$ , ensuring correct completion of the protocol when no cheater is identified. This completes a high-level description of our protocol.

Before presenting the formal description of our IA protocol (Figure 5), we introduce some notation and describe a property we need from our garbling scheme. Specifically, we use a garbling scheme with independent key generation that allows us to pick keys independently of the circuit C. Therefore, we are able to first generate keys (i.e. labels) and later input them along with the circuit C into the garble function. Such a scheme can be instantiated with Yao's garbling scheme [Yao86]. We give a formal definition in Definition 12 (Appendix A.5).

Notation. Let  $C_i(x_i, \rho_i, \{\mathsf{msg}_j^1\}_{j \in [n]}, \{\mathsf{msg}_{j \to i}^1\}_{j \in [n]})$  denote the Boolean circuit that takes party  $P_i$ 's input  $x_i$ , randomness  $\rho_i$ , first-round broadcast messages  $\mathsf{msg}_1^1, \ldots, \mathsf{msg}_n^1$ , and first-round private messages  $\{\mathsf{msg}_{j \to i}^1\}_{j \in [n]}$  and outputs  $\mathsf{msg}_i^2$ . For simplicity, we assume that  $(x_i, \rho_i)$  consists of z bits, and each first-round (broadcast or private) message is  $\ell$  bits long, so each circuit has  $\mathsf{L} = z + 2n \cdot \ell$  input bits. Note that  $C_i$  is public. Let g be the size of a garbled  $C_i$  (we assume for simplicity each  $C_i$  has the same size). We assume that  $C_i$  has the following order:

- 1. Input wires on positions [z] correspond to  $\mathcal{P}_i$ 's private input  $x_i$  and randomness  $\rho_i$ .
- 2. For  $j \in [n]$ , input wires on positions  $\{z + \ell \cdot (j-1) + \alpha \mid \alpha \in [\ell]\}$  correspond to  $\mathcal{P}_j$ 's first-round broadcast message  $\mathsf{msg}_j^1$ . We denote this range as  $\{z + 1, \ldots, M\}$ , where  $\mathsf{M} = z + n \cdot \ell$ .

{24}------------------------------------------------

3. For *j* ∈ [*n*], input wires on positions { *z*+*ℓ*·(*n*+*j*−1)+*α* | *α* ∈ [*ℓ*] } correspond to P*<sup>j</sup>* 's first-round private message msg<sup>1</sup> *j*→*i* sent to P*<sup>i</sup>* . We denote this range as {M + 1*, . . . ,* L}.

*Relations for mNIZKs* In our IA protocol, we use multi-string NIZK for the following relation.

$$\mathcal{R}_{\mathsf{IA}} = \left\{ \begin{array}{l} \mathbf{K}_i \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^\lambda, \mathsf{L}, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}) \\ (\mathsf{GC}_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{garble}(1^\lambda, C_i, \mathbf{K}_i, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}) \\ \\ (\mathsf{GC}_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{garble}(1^\lambda, C_i, \mathbf{K}_i, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}) \\ \\ (\mathsf{GC}_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{garble}(1^\lambda, C_i, \mathbf{K}_i, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}) \\ \\ (\mathsf{msg}_i^1, \{\mathsf{msg}_{i \to j}^1\}_{j \in [n]} \leftarrow \\ \\ (\mathsf{frst-msg}_i(x_i, \rho_i) \\ \\ \forall \alpha \in [z] : K_i^\alpha = K_i^{\alpha, (x_i || \rho_i)[\alpha]} \\ \\ w = \left\{ (\rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}, \ x_i, \ \rho_i, \ \{o_{i \to j}^\alpha\}_{\alpha \in [\ell], j \in [n]}, \\ \\ \{(o_i^{(\alpha,0)}, \ o_i^{(\alpha,1)})\}_{\alpha \in \{z+1, \dots, \mathsf{L}\}} \right) \\ \\ (\mathsf{K}_i^{(\alpha,b)} \leftarrow \mathsf{Decom}(c_i^{(\alpha,b)}, o_i^{(\alpha,b)}) \\ \\ \forall \alpha \in [\ell], j \in [n] : \\ \\ \mathsf{msg}_{i \to j}^1[\alpha] \leftarrow \mathsf{Decom}(c_{i \to j}^\alpha, o_{i \to j}^\alpha) \end{array} \right\}$$

*Remark 2.* In the relation above, by a slight abuse of notation, the commitments to values actually refer to commitments to a secret sharing of those values (as used within the OPTI protocol). This is legitimate, since a set of commitments to shares is itself a secure commitment. We abuse notation in this way to simplify our relation statement.

*Remark 3.* Observe that in the protocol, each party commits to its labels without permuting their order. However, these commitments are never opened and are only used within the mNIZK proof, thereby keeping the position of the label that is later revealed hidden from the parties.

## **IA Protocol**

**Input:** Each party P*<sup>i</sup>* has input *x<sup>i</sup>* and randomness *ρ<sup>i</sup>* (which is split or expanded into randomness used for individual steps).

### **Building Blocks:**

- **–** *Π*OPTI (Section [3.2\)](#page-13-0)
- **–** *ΠUA* is 2-round a honest-majority UA protocol securely computing *f* in the plain model (instantiated by [\[ACGJ18\]](#page-29-2)), represented as a set of functions {frst-msg*<sup>i</sup> ,* snd-msg*<sup>i</sup> ,* output}*i*∈[*n*] .

{25}------------------------------------------------

- A secure commitment scheme (Com, Decom), as described in Appendix A.2
- A multi-string NIZK scheme (mNIZK.Gen, Prove, Verify), as described in Appendix A.4
- A secure garbling scheme (KGen, garble, Eval) with independent key generation, as described in Appendix A.5

## **Round 1:** Each $\mathcal{P}_i$ does the following:

- Compute  $crs_i \leftarrow mNIZK.Gen(\rho_i^{crs})$
- Compute  $\mathbf{K}_i \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^{\lambda}, \mathsf{L}, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}})$
- Let  $\mathsf{msg}_i^1, \{\mathsf{msg}_{i\to j}^1\}_{j\in[n]} \leftarrow \mathsf{frst-msg}_i(x_i, \rho_i)$  denote the first-round broadcast and private messages of  $\mathcal{P}_i$  in  $\Pi_{UA}$ .
- Set labels corresponding to own input and randomness:  $K_i^{\alpha}$  $K_i^{\alpha,(x_i\|\rho_i)[\alpha]}$  for  $\alpha \in [z]$ .
- Compute commitments of labels corresponding to the broadcast message indices: For  $\alpha \in \{z+1, \ldots, M\}$ ,

  - compute  $(o_i^{(\alpha,0)}, c_i^{(\alpha,0)}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Com}(K_i^{(\alpha,0)}).$  compute  $(o_i^{(\alpha,1)}, c_i^{(\alpha,1)}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Com}(K_i^{(\alpha,1)}).$
- Broadcast  $(\mathtt{crs}_i, \mathtt{msg}_i^1, \{K_i^{\alpha}\}_{\alpha \in [z]}), \{(c_i^{(\alpha,0)}, c_i^{(\alpha,1)})\}_{\alpha \in \{z+1,\dots,\mathsf{M}\}}).$  For each bit of  $\mathtt{msg}_{j \to i}^1$   $(j \in [n])$ , an OPTI instance is run with  $\mathcal{P}_i$  as sender and  $\mathcal{P}_j$  as receiver. Recall that the wire indices  $\{\mathsf{M}+(j-1)\cdot$  $\ell+1,\ldots,\mathsf{M}+j\cdot\ell\}$  correspond to  $\mathsf{msg}_{j\to i}^1$  in  $\mathsf{GC}_i$ . For each  $j\in[n]$  and each  $\beta \in |\ell|$ ,
  - Let  $\alpha := \mathsf{M} + (j-1) \cdot \ell + \beta$ .
  - Run round 1 of OPTI as S with inputs  $(K_i^{(\alpha,0)}, K_i^{(\alpha,1)})$ .
  - Let  $((c_i^{(\alpha,0)}, c_i^{(\alpha,1)}), (o_i^{(\alpha,0)}, o_i^{(\alpha,1)}))$  denote the commitments and corresponding decommitments of the inputs  $(K_i^{(\alpha,0)}, K_i^{(\alpha,1)})$ , that are computed during round 1 of OPTI.
- For each bit of  $\mathsf{msg}_{i\to j}^1$   $(j\in[n])$ , an OPTI instance is run with  $\mathcal{P}_i$  as receiver and  $\mathcal{P}_j$  as sender. Recall that the wire indices  $\{\mathsf{M}+(i-1)\cdot$  $\ell+1,\ldots,\mathsf{M}+i\cdot\ell\}$  correspond to  $\mathsf{msg}^1_{i\to j}$  in  $\mathsf{GC}_j$ . For each  $j\in[n]$  and  $\beta \in |\ell|$ :
  - Let  $\alpha := \mathsf{M} + (i-1) \cdot \ell + \beta$ .
  - Run round 1 of OPTI as R with input  $\mathsf{msg}_{i\to j}^1[\beta]$ .
  - Let  $(c_{i\to j}^{\beta}, o_{i\to j}^{\beta})$  denote the commitment and decommitment of the input  $\mathsf{msg}_{i\to j}^1[\beta]$  computed during round 1 of OPTI.
- Run round 1 of OPTI as an intermediary for all  $n^2 \cdot \ell$  executions.

## **Round 2:** Each $\mathcal{P}_i$ does the following:

- Set  $\overline{\mathtt{crs}}$  ← ( $\mathtt{crs}_1, ..., \mathtt{crs}_n$ ).
- Broadcast  $GC_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} garble(C_i, \mathbf{K}_i, \rho_i^{GC})$ , where  $C_i$  denotes the circuit corresponding to  $snd-msg_i$ .

{26}------------------------------------------------

- $$\begin{split} \ & \mathrm{Set} \ \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^i = (\mathsf{GC}_i, \mathsf{msg}_i^1, \{K_i^\alpha\}_{\alpha \in [z]}, \{(c_i^{(\alpha,0)}, c_i^{(\alpha,1)})\}_{\alpha \in \{z+1, \dots, \mathsf{L}\}}, \\ & \{c_{i \to j}^\alpha\}_{\alpha \in [\ell], j \in [n]}) \ \mathrm{and} \ w_{\mathsf{IA}}^i = (\rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}, x_i, \rho_i, \{o_{i \to j}^\alpha\}_{\alpha \in [\ell], j \in [n]}, \end{split}$$
   $\{(o_i^{(\alpha,0)},o_i^{(\alpha,1)})\}_{\alpha\in\{z+1,\dots,L\}}\}.$ - Broadcast  $\pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^i \leftarrow \mathsf{Prove}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}},\phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^i,w_{\mathsf{IA}}^i).$
- Compute the labels for  $GC_i$  corresponding to first-round broadcast messages: For each  $j \in [n], \beta \in [\ell]$ , let  $\alpha := z + \ell \cdot (j-1) + \beta$ , and set  $K_i^\alpha = K_i^{(\alpha,\, \mathrm{msg}_j^1[\check\beta])}.$
- Broadcast  $\{K_i^{\alpha}\}_{\alpha\in\{z+1,\ldots,\mathsf{M}\}}$ .
- Run round 2 of the OPTI instances initiated in the first round i.e. for  $j \in |n|$ :
  - For  $\beta \in [\ell]$ , let  $\alpha := M + (j-1) \cdot \ell + \beta$ , and run round 2 of OPTI as S with  $R = \mathcal{P}_i$ .
  - For  $\beta \in [\ell]$ , let  $\alpha := M + (i-1) \cdot \ell + \beta$ , and run round 2 of OPTI as R with  $S = \mathcal{P}_j$ .
- Run round 2 of OPTI as an intermediary for all  $n^2 \cdot \ell$  executions.

**Output:** Each party  $\mathcal{P}_i$  does the following:

- Run  $\mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}$  for all  $n^2 \cdot \ell$  executions.
- If there was an instance of OPTI with an output  $\mathsf{abort}_j$ , output  $\mathsf{abort}_j$ .
- For  $j \in [n]$ : check  $\mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathtt{crs}}, \phi^j_{\mathsf{IA}}, \pi^j_{\mathsf{IA}}) = 1$  and output  $\mathsf{abort}_j$  otherwise.
- For  $j \in [n]$ : compute  $\mathsf{msg}_j^2 \leftarrow \mathsf{Eval}(\mathsf{GC}_j, \{K_i^\alpha\}_{\alpha \in [\mathsf{L}]})$  and output  $\mathsf{abort}_j$ if evaluation fails.
- Compute  $y \leftarrow \text{output}(\{\mathsf{msg}_j^1\}_{j \in [n]}, \{\mathsf{msg}_{j \to i}^1\}_{j \in [n]}, \{\mathsf{msg}_j^2\}_{j \in [n]})$

<span id="page-26-2"></span>Fig. 5: IA Protocol

We are now ready to state our final theorem, the proof of which we summarize in Section 5.1, and give in full in Appendix B.

<span id="page-26-1"></span>**Theorem 3.** Let (Com, Decom) be a secure commitment scheme (Appendix A.2); (mNIZK.Gen, Prove, Verify) a secure multi-string NIZK scheme (Appendix A.4); (KGen, garble, Eval) a secure garbling scheme with independent key generation; and  $\Pi_{\mathsf{OPTI}}$  be the 2-round OPTI protocol (Section 3.1) described in Figure 4. Let f be an efficiently computable function, and  $\Pi_{UA}$  be a 2-round protocol that securely computes f with unanimous abort in the presence of a malicious adversary that corrupts t < n/3 parties. Then, the 2-round IA construction in Figure 5 securely computes f with identifiable abort in the presence of a malicious adversary that corrupts t < n/3 parties.

#### <span id="page-26-0"></span>**Proof of Security** 5.1

Below we describe the simulator  $\mathcal{S}$  for a real-world adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ .

{27}------------------------------------------------

## Simulator S

Let  $\mathcal{H}$  and I denote the sets of honest and corrupt parties, respectively. Let  $\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{UA}}$  denote the simulator for the underlying protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{UA}}$ , and let  $f_{UA}$  and  $f_{IA}$  denote the ideal functionalities corresponding to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{UA}}$  and  $\Pi_{\mathsf{IA}}$ , respectively. Start by invoking  $\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{UA}}$  and receive messages  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_i^1, \{\mathsf{msg}_{i\to j}^1\}_{j\in I})\}_{i\in\mathcal{H}}$ . Proceed with the following steps:

**Round 1:** On behalf of each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i \in \mathcal{H}$  do the following:

- Compute  $(\mathtt{crs}_i, \tau_i, \xi_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK.SE}_1(1^{\lambda})$ .
- Compute  $\mathbf{K}_i \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^{\lambda}, \mathsf{L}, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}})$  s.t. both labels in each pair are identical.
- Set each message in  $\{\mathsf{msg}_{i\to k}^1\}_{k\in\mathcal{H}}$  to 0.
- Complete the remainder of the first round as in the protocol.

**Input Extraction:** Upon completing the above steps, obtain first round broadcast messages  $\{\mathsf{msg}_j^1\}_{j\in I}$  from  $\mathcal{A}$ . To obtain the first-round private message for each execution of OPTI, where  $S = \mathcal{P}_i$  for  $i \in \mathcal{H}$  and  $R = \mathcal{P}_j$ for  $j \in I$  do the following steps:

- For  $\beta \in [\ell]$ , let  $\{[\mathsf{msg}_{j \to i}^1[\beta]]_k\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}$  denote the shares the honest parties obtained from  $R = \mathcal{P}_j$ .
- For  $\beta \in [\ell]$ , reconstruct  $\mathsf{msg}_{j \to i}^1[\beta] \leftarrow \mathsf{reconstruct}\{[\mathsf{msg}_{j \to i}^1[\beta]]_k\}_{k \in \mathcal{H}}$ . If reconstruction fails set  $\mathsf{msg}_{i\to i}^1 = \bot$ .

For  $j \in I, \beta \in [\ell]$ , set  $\mathsf{msg}^1_{j \to i} = \mathsf{msg}^1_{j \to i}[1] \| ... \| \mathsf{msg}^1_{j \to i}[\ell]$  and send  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_j^1, \{\mathsf{msg}_{j\to i}^1\}_{i\in\mathcal{H}})\}_{j\in I}$  to  $\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{UA}}$ . Upon receiving a request from  $\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{UA}}$  to query  $f_{UA}$  with inputs  $\{x_j\}_{j\in I}$ , forward this message to  $f_{IA}$  and receive output y. Forward y to  $S_{UA}$  and receive  $\{\mathsf{msg}_i^2\}_{i\in\mathcal{H}}$  as a response.

Round 2: Set  $\overline{\mathtt{crs}} \leftarrow \{\mathtt{crs}_i\}_{i \in \mathbb{N}}, \overline{\tau} \leftarrow \{\tau_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{H}}, \overline{\xi} \leftarrow \{\xi_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{H}} \text{ and for each }$  $\mathcal{P}_i \in \mathcal{H}$  do the following:

- $$\begin{split} &- \text{ Broadcast } \mathsf{GC}_i \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{sim}\mathsf{GC}(C,\mathsf{msg}_i^2,\mathbf{K}_i,\rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}). \\ &- \text{ Set } \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^i = (\mathsf{GC}_i,\mathsf{msg}_i^1,\{K_i^\alpha\}_{\alpha\in[z]},\{(c_i^{(\alpha,0)},c_i^{(\alpha,1)})\}_{\alpha\in\{z+1,\ldots,\mathsf{L}\}}, \end{split}$$
   $\{c_{i\to j}^{\alpha}\}_{\alpha\in[\ell],j\in[n]}$ .
- Broadcast  $\pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^{\imath} \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK.S}_2(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^{\imath}, \overline{\tau}).$
- Complete the remainder of the second round as in the protocol.

#### Output:

- For each  $j \in I$ , if  $\mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathtt{crs}}, \phi^j_{\mathsf{IA}}, \pi^j_{\mathsf{IA}}) = \mathtt{accept}$ , then compute  $w^j_{\mathsf{IA}} \leftarrow$  $\mathsf{E}_2(\overline{\mathsf{crs}},\phi_\mathsf{IA}^\jmath,\pi_\mathsf{IA}^\jmath,\xi)$ . If extraction fails, send abort<sub>j</sub> to the trusted party.
- For each  $\mathcal{P}_i \in \mathcal{H}$  complete the output phase as in the protocol. If any execution results in  $abort_j$ , send  $abort_j$  to the trusted party.
- For every pair of parties, for every execution of OPTI do the following:
- a) Let  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}$  be S with input b and  $\mathcal{P}_{i_2}$  be R with input  $(x_0, x_1)$ ,  $\{i_1,i_2\} \in \mathcal{H}$ . If there exists  $\mathcal{P}_k \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k \in$ {abort, abort<sub>S</sub>, abort<sub>R</sub>, x} for  $x \neq x_b$ , stop the simulation.

{28}------------------------------------------------

- b) Let  $\mathcal{P}_i$  be S with input b and  $\mathcal{P}_j$  be R with input  $(x_0, x_1), i \in \mathcal{H}, j \in I$ . If there exists  $\mathcal{P}_k \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k \in \{\mathsf{abort}, \mathsf{abort}_S, x\}$  for  $x \notin \{x_0, x_1\}$ , stop the simulation.
- c) Let  $\mathcal{P}_j$  be S with input b and  $\mathcal{P}_i$  be R with input  $(x_0, x_1), i \in \mathcal{H}, j \in I$ . If there exists  $\mathcal{P}_k \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k \in \{\mathsf{abort}, \mathsf{abort}_R\}$ , stop the simulation.
- d) Let  $\mathcal{P}_{j_1}$  be S with input b and  $\mathcal{P}_{j_2}$  be R with input  $(x_0, x_1)$ ,  $\{j_1, j_2\} \in I$ . If there exists  $\mathcal{P}_k \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k = \mathsf{abort}$ , stop the simulation.
- e) If there exist  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \mathcal{P}_{i_2} \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}^{i_1}_{\mathsf{output}} \neq \mathsf{OPTI}^{i_2}_{\mathsf{output}}$ , stop the simulation.
- If no abort message was sent, send continue to the trusted party.
- Output the output of  $\mathcal{A}$  and terminate.

#### Fig. 6: Simulator

We introduce a series of hybrid experiments to demonstrate that the joint distribution of the adversary's output and the outputs of the honest parties in the ideal execution is computationally indistinguishable from the corresponding joint distribution obtained in a real protocol execution. In each experiment, the output is defined as the tuple consisting of the adversary's output and the outputs of the honest parties.

We describe the sequence of hybrids in detail, and prove their indistinguishability, in Appendix B. Below, we summarize the hybrid steps.

**Hybrid**  $H_0$  (Real World): Execute the protocol as in a real execution, using the honest parties' inputs.

**Hybrid**  $\mathsf{H}_1$ : Same as Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_0$ , except that for each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , the  $\mathsf{crs}_i$  is generated as a part of a triple  $(\mathsf{crs}_i, \tau_i, \xi_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK.SE}_1(1^\lambda)$ .

This hybrid is indistinguishable from the previous one by the reference string indistinguishability of the multi-string NIZK scheme.

**Hybrid**  $H_2$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_1$ , except that for each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , the proof for relation  $\mathcal{R}_{\mathsf{IA}}$  is generated using  $\pi^i_{\mathsf{IA}} \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK}.\mathsf{S}_2(\overline{\mathsf{crs}},\phi^i_{\mathsf{IA}},\overline{\tau})$ .

This hybrid is indistinguishable from the previous one by the simulation indistinguishability of the multi-string NIZK scheme.

**Hybrid**  $H_3$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_2$ , except that for every corrupt party  $\mathcal{P}_j \in I$ , whenever  $\text{Verify}(\overline{\mathtt{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j) = \mathtt{accept}$ , the simulator extracts a witness as  $w_{\mathsf{IA}}^j \leftarrow \mathsf{E}_2(\overline{\mathtt{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \overline{\xi})$  and aborts if the extraction fails.

This hybrid is indistinguishable from the previous one by the simulation extractability of the multi-string NIZK scheme.

**Hybrid**  $H_4$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_3$ , except that for each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , the pair of labels  $\mathbf{K}_i$  used in a given execution of OPTI are identical. We let this label be the "active" label for the message bit to which this execution of OPTI corresponds.

{29}------------------------------------------------

In honest parties' garbled circuits, two different labels are still used (the circuit is garbled honestly, as before). Corrupt party messages are extracted from their secret sharings, and honest parties' circuits are garbled so as to place the "active" label in the position corresponding to the messages used. This hybrid is indistinguishable from the previous one by the sender privacy of OPTI.

**Hybrid**  $\mathsf{H}_5$ : Same as Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_4$ , except that for each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , the garbled circuit is generated using  $\mathsf{GC}_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{sim}\mathsf{GC}(C, \mathsf{msg}_i^2, \mathbf{K}_i, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}})$ .

This hybrid is indistinguishable from the previous one by the privacy of the garbled circuit scheme.

**Hybrid**  $H_6$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_5$ , except that honest parties' inputs to OPTI corresponding to their private first-round messages to each other, i.e.,  $\{\mathsf{msg}_{i\to k}^1\}_{i,k\in\mathcal{H}}$ , are set to 0.

This hybrid is indistinguishable from the previous one by the privacy of OPTI. Hybrid  $H_7$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_6$ , except that the honest parties' messages to corrupt parties are replaced with simulated ones (generated using  $S_{UA}$ ). This hybrid is indistinguishable from the previous one by the security of  $\Pi_{UA}$ . Hybrid  $H_8$  (Ideal World): Same as Hybrid  $H_7$ , except that for every pair of parties, for every execution of OPTI, S aborts if identifiability is violated. This hybrid is indistinguishable from the previous one by the identifiability of OPTI.

In Hybrid H<sub>8</sub>, the simulator no longer depends on any hidden information of the functionality, and honest parties output the correct output or agree on a corrupt party to blame, as per the definition of security with identifiable abort (Definition 7). Therefore, Hybrid H<sub>8</sub> is identically distributed as the ideal-world experiment, completing the proof.

### Acknowledgements

Jure Sternad and Sophia Yakoubov are supported in part by the Danish Independent Research Council under Grant-ID DFF-2032-00122B and DFF-2064-00016B (YOSO). Divya Ravi is funded by NWO Talent Programme Veni (VI.Veni.242.295).

### References

- <span id="page-29-1"></span>ABT21. Benny Applebaum, Zvika Brakerski, and Rotem Tsabary. Perfect secure computation in two rounds. SIAM J. Comput., 50(1):68–97, 2021.
- <span id="page-29-2"></span>ACGJ18. Prabhanjan Ananth, Arka Rai Choudhuri, Aarushi Goel, and Abhishek Jain. Round-optimal secure multiparty computation with honest majority. In Hovav Shacham and Alexandra Boldyreva, editors, *CRYPTO 2018*, *Part II*, volume 10992 of *LNCS*, pages 395–424, August 2018.
- <span id="page-29-0"></span>ACJ17. Prabhanjan Ananth, Arka Rai Choudhuri, and Abhishek Jain. A new approach to round-optimal secure multiparty computation. In Jonathan Katz and Hovav Shacham, editors, *CRYPTO 2017*, *Part I*, volume 10401 of *LNCS*, pages 468–499, August 2017.

{30}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-30-7"></span>AKP20. Benny Applebaum, Eliran Kachlon, and Arpita Patra. The round complexity of perfect MPC with active security and optimal resiliency. In *61st FOCS*, pages 1277–1284. IEEE Computer Society Press, November 2020.
- <span id="page-30-8"></span>AKP23. Benny Applebaum, Eliran Kachlon, and Arpita Patra. The round complexity of statistical MPC with optimal resiliency. pages 1527–1536. ACM Press, 2023.
- <span id="page-30-2"></span>AL10. Yonatan Aumann and Yehuda Lindell. Security against covert adversaries: Efficient protocols for realistic adversaries. *J. Cryptol.*, 23(2):281–343, 2010.
- <span id="page-30-5"></span>BHP17. Zvika Brakerski, Shai Halevi, and Antigoni Polychroniadou. Four round secure computation without setup. In Yael Kalai and Leonid Reyzin, editors, *TCC 2017, Part I*, volume 10677 of *LNCS*, pages 645–677, November 2017.
- <span id="page-30-4"></span>BL18. Fabrice Benhamouda and Huijia Lin. k-round multiparty computation from k-round oblivious transfer via garbled interactive circuits. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2018, Part II*, volume 10821 of *LNCS*, pages 500–532, April / May 2018.
- <span id="page-30-6"></span>CCG<sup>+</sup>20. Arka Rai Choudhuri, Michele Ciampi, Vipul Goyal, Abhishek Jain, and Rafail Ostrovsky. Round optimal secure multiparty computation from minimal assumptions. In Rafael Pass and Krzysztof Pietrzak, editors, *TCC 2020, Part II*, volume 12551 of *LNCS*, pages 291–319, November 2020.
- <span id="page-30-0"></span>CDvdG88. David Chaum, Ivan Damg˚ard, and Jeroen van de Graaf. Multiparty computations ensuring privacy of each party's input and correctness of the result. In Carl Pomerance, editor, *CRYPTO'87*, volume 293 of *LNCS*, pages 87–119, August 1988.
- <span id="page-30-11"></span>CGZ20. Ran Cohen, Juan A. Garay, and Vassilis Zikas. Broadcast-optimal two-round MPC. In Anne Canteaut and Yuval Ishai, editors, *EURO-CRYPT 2020, Part II*, volume 12106 of *LNCS*, pages 828–858, May 2020.
- <span id="page-30-1"></span>DRSY23a. Ivan Damg˚ard, Divya Ravi, Luisa Siniscalchi, and Sophia Yakoubov. Broadcast-optimal two round MPC with asynchronous peer-to-peer channels. In *LATINCRYPT*, volume 14168 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 87–106. Springer, 2023.
- <span id="page-30-12"></span>DRSY23b. Ivan Damg˚ard, Divya Ravi, Luisa Siniscalchi, and Sophia Yakoubov. Minimizing setup in broadcast-optimal two round MPC. In *EURO-CRYPT 2023, Part II*, LNCS, pages 129–158, June 2023.
- <span id="page-30-13"></span>ElG84. Taher ElGamal. A public key cryptosystem and a signature scheme based on discrete logarithms. In G. R. Blakley and David Chaum, editors, *CRYPTO'84*, volume 196 of *LNCS*, pages 10–18, August 1984.
- <span id="page-30-3"></span>GGHR14. Sanjam Garg, Craig Gentry, Shai Halevi, and Mariana Raykova. Two-round secure MPC from indistinguishability obfuscation. In Yehuda Lindell, editor, *TCC 2014*, volume 8349 of *LNCS*, pages 74–94, February 2014.
- <span id="page-30-10"></span>GIKR02. Rosario Gennaro, Yuval Ishai, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Tal Rabin. On 2-round secure multiparty computation. In Moti Yung, editor, *CRYPTO 2002*, volume 2442 of *LNCS*, pages 178–193, August 2002.
- <span id="page-30-9"></span>GJPR21. Aarushi Goel, Abhishek Jain, Manoj Prabhakaran, and Rajeev Raghunath. On communication models and best-achievable security in two-round MPC. In Kobbi Nissim and Brent Waters, editors, *TCC 2021, Part II*, volume 13043 of *LNCS*, pages 97–128, November 2021.

{31}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-31-9"></span>GLS15. S. Dov Gordon, Feng-Hao Liu, and Elaine Shi. Constant-round MPC with fairness and guarantee of output delivery. In Rosario Gennaro and Matthew J. B. Robshaw, editors, *CRYPTO 2015, Part II*, volume 9216 of *LNCS*, pages 63–82, August 2015.
- <span id="page-31-7"></span>GMPP16. Sanjam Garg, Pratyay Mukherjee, Omkant Pandey, and Antigoni Polychroniadou. The exact round complexity of secure computation. In Marc Fischlin and Jean-S´ebastien Coron, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II*, volume 9666 of *LNCS*, pages 448–476, May 2016.
- <span id="page-31-0"></span>GMW87. Oded Goldreich, Silvio Micali, and Avi Wigderson. How to play any mental game or A completeness theorem for protocols with honest majority. In Alfred Aho, editor, *19th ACM STOC*, pages 218–229. ACM Press, May 1987.
- <span id="page-31-13"></span>GO07. Jens Groth and Rafail Ostrovsky. Cryptography in the multi-string model. In Alfred Menezes, editor, *CRYPTO 2007*, volume 4622 of *LNCS*, pages 323–341, August 2007.
- <span id="page-31-4"></span>GS18. Sanjam Garg and Akshayaram Srinivasan. Two-round multiparty secure computation from minimal assumptions. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2018, Part II*, volume 10821 of *LNCS*, pages 468–499, April / May 2018.
- <span id="page-31-2"></span>HLP11. Shai Halevi, Yehuda Lindell, and Benny Pinkas. Secure computation on the web: Computing without simultaneous interaction. In Phillip Rogaway, editor, *CRYPTO 2011*, volume 6841 of *LNCS*, pages 132–150, August 2011.
- <span id="page-31-6"></span>IKKP15. Yuval Ishai, Ranjit Kumaresan, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Anat Paskin-Cherniavsky. Secure computation with minimal interaction, revisited. In Rosario Gennaro and Matthew J. B. Robshaw, editors, *CRYPTO 2015, Part II*, volume 9216 of *LNCS*, pages 359–378, August 2015.
- <span id="page-31-10"></span>IKP10. Yuval Ishai, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Anat Paskin. Secure multiparty computation with minimal interaction. In Tal Rabin, editor, *CRYPTO 2010*, volume 6223 of *LNCS*, pages 577–594, August 2010.
- <span id="page-31-5"></span>KO04. Jonathan Katz and Rafail Ostrovsky. Round-optimal secure two-party computation. In Matthew Franklin, editor, *CRYPTO 2004*, volume 3152 of *LNCS*, pages 335–354, August 2004.
- <span id="page-31-12"></span>KRY24. Sebastian Kolby, Divya Ravi, and Sophia Yakoubov. Constant-round YOSO MPC without setup. *IACR Commun. Cryptol.*, 1(3):30, 2024.
- <span id="page-31-3"></span>MW16. Pratyay Mukherjee and Daniel Wichs. Two round multiparty computation via multi-key FHE. In Marc Fischlin and Jean-S´ebastien Coron, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II*, volume 9666 of *LNCS*, pages 735–763, May 2016.
- <span id="page-31-11"></span>Ped92. Torben P. Pedersen. Non-interactive and information-theoretic secure verifiable secret sharing. In Joan Feigenbaum, editor, *CRYPTO'91*, volume 576 of *LNCS*, pages 129–140, August 1992.
- <span id="page-31-8"></span>PR18. Arpita Patra and Divya Ravi. On the exact round complexity of secure three-party computation. In Hovav Shacham and Alexandra Boldyreva, editors, *CRYPTO 2018, Part II*, volume 10992 of *LNCS*, pages 425–458, August 2018.
- <span id="page-31-1"></span>Yao86. Andrew Chi-Chih Yao. How to generate and exchange secrets (extended abstract). In *27th FOCS*, pages 162–167. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 1986.

{32}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-32-0"></span>A Preliminaries

In this section, we describe the building blocks for our OPTI and MPC constructions.

### <span id="page-32-1"></span>A.1 Public Key Encryption

We take the definition of public key encryption directly from the work of Damgård et al [DRSY23b].

**Definition 8 (Public-Key Encryption (PKE)).** A public-key encryption (PKE) scheme is a tuple of efficient algorithms PKE = (KGen, Enc, Dec) defined as follows.

 $\mathsf{KGen}(1^{\lambda}) \to (\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk})$ : The probabilistic algorithm  $\mathsf{KGen}$  takes as input the security parameter  $\lambda \in \mathbb{N}$ , and outputs a public/secret key pair  $(\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk})$ .

Enc(pk, msg;  $\rho$ )  $\rightarrow ct$ : The probabilistic algorithm Enc takes as input the public key pk, a message msg, and implicit randomness  $\rho$ , and outputs a ciphertext  $ct = \text{Enc}(pk, msg; \rho)$ .

 $\mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk}, ct) \to \mathsf{msg:}$  The deterministic algorithm  $\mathsf{Dec}$  takes as input the secret key  $\mathsf{sk}$  and a ciphertext ct and outputs  $\mathsf{msg} = \mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk}, ct)$  which is either equal to some message  $\mathsf{msg}$  or to an error symbol  $\bot$ .

We require the following properties of a PKE scheme:

Correctness. We say that PKE satisfies correctness if for all  $(pk, sk) \leftarrow KGen(1^{\lambda})$ ,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk},\mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk},\mathsf{msg})) = \mathsf{msg}] = 1$$

(where the randomness is taken over the internal coin tosses of algorithm Enc).

CPA Security. We say that PKE satisfies semantic security if for all PPT adversaries  $\mathcal{A}$ , for  $(\mathsf{msg}_0, \mathsf{msg}_1) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(1^{\lambda})$ , if  $|\mathsf{msg}_0| = |\mathsf{msg}_1|$ ,

$$\Pr\left[ \mathcal{A}(\mathsf{pk}, ct) = b: \begin{array}{c} (\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^\lambda); b \leftarrow \{0, 1\}; \\ ct \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{msg}_b) \end{array} \right] \leq \frac{1}{2} + \mathrm{negl}(\lambda)$$

(where the randomness is taken over the internal coin tosses of A, KGen and Enc).

Key Verifiability. We say that PKE satisfies key verifiability if there exists a deterministic polynomial-time algorithm KeyVer such that:

 $- For \ all \ (\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^{\lambda}),$ 

$$\Pr[\mathsf{KeyVer}(\mathsf{pk},\mathsf{sk})=1]=1.$$

- For all pk, sk such that (pk, sk) were not generated by  $\mathsf{KGen}(1^{\lambda})$ ,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{KeyVer}(\mathsf{pk},\mathsf{sk}) = 1] \le \operatorname{negl}(\lambda).$$

{33}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-33-0"></span>A.2 Commitment Scheme

We take the definition of a commitment scheme from the work of Damgård et al [DRSY23a].

A commitment scheme allows a party to commit to a value while keeping it hidden, and to later reveal the committed value with the guarantee that the commitment is binding [Ped92].

**Definition 9 (Commitment Scheme).** A commitment scheme is a tuple of efficient algorithms COM = (Com, Decom) defined as follows.

 $\mathsf{Com}(\mathsf{msg}) \to (o,c)$ : The commitment algorithm  $\mathsf{Com}\ takes\ as\ input\ a\ message\ \mathsf{msg}\ \in \{0,1\}^\lambda\ and\ outputs\ a\ decommitment\ value\ o \in \{0,1\}^\lambda\ and\ a\ commitment\ value\ c \in \{0,1\}^\lambda.$ 

 $\mathsf{Decom}(o,c) \to \{\mathsf{msg}, \bot\}$ : The opening algorithm  $\mathsf{Decom}\ takes\ as\ input\ a\ decommitment\ value\ o \in \{0,1\}^\lambda\ and\ a\ commitment\ value\ c \in \{0,1\}^\lambda\ and\ outputs\ either\ a\ message\ \mathsf{msg}\ or\ \bot\ in\ case\ o\ is\ not\ a\ valid\ decommitment\ for\ c.$ 

We require the following properties of a commitment scheme:

Correctness. We say that a commitment scheme COM satisfies correctness if for any message  $msg \in \{0,1\}^{\lambda}$  and  $(o,c) \leftarrow Com(msg)$ , we have that

$$\Pr[\mathsf{Decom}(c, o) = \mathsf{msg}] \ge 1 - \mathsf{negl}(\lambda).$$

Hiding. The hiding property requires that a commitment reveals nothing about the underlying message. More formally, we say that a commitment scheme COM satisfies hiding if for all PPT adversaries A,

$$\Pr\left[ \begin{array}{c|c} b = b' & (\mathsf{msg}_0, \mathsf{msg}_1) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(1^\lambda); \\ b \leftarrow \{0, 1\}; \\ (o, c) \leftarrow \mathsf{Com}(\mathsf{msg}_b); \\ b' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(c) & \end{array} \right] \leq \frac{1}{2} + \mathrm{negl}(\lambda) \; .$$

Binding. The binding property requires that an adversary cannot open a commitment in two different ways. More formally, we say that a commitment scheme COM satisfies binding if for all PPT adversaries A,

$$\Pr\left[ \begin{array}{c|c} \operatorname{msg}_0, \operatorname{msg}_1 \neq \bot, \operatorname{msg}_0 \neq \operatorname{msg}_1 & (c, o_0, o_1) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(1^{\lambda}); \\ \operatorname{msg}_0 \leftarrow \operatorname{Decom}(c, o_0); \\ \operatorname{msg}_1 \leftarrow \operatorname{Decom}(c, o_1) \end{array} \right] \leq \operatorname{negl}(\lambda) \; .$$

{34}------------------------------------------------

*Instantiation: ElGamal Commitment* We use a commitment scheme based on ElGamal encryption [\[ElG84\]](#page-30-13). Let *G* be a cyclic group of prime order *q* generated by *g*, where |*q*| = *λ*. We assume that the group parameters (*G, q, g*) are publicly known.

The key generation algorithm samples a secret key sk ← **Z***<sup>q</sup>* and sets the public key pk := *g* sk .

To commit to a message *m*, the committer samples randomness *r* ← **Z***<sup>q</sup>* and computes

$$Com(m;r) := (c_1, c_2) = (g^r, pk^r \cdot h(m)),$$

where *h* : **Z***<sup>q</sup>* → *G* is an encoding of the message *m* into the group *G*. The opening of the commitment is (*m, r*).

The scheme is perfectly binding and computationally hiding under the Decisional Diffie–Hellman (DDH) assumption in *G*.

*Message Encoding.* To encode messages as group elements, we use the following standard embedding into a prime-order subgroup of **Z** ∗ *p* . Let *p* = 2*q* + 1 be a safe prime and let *G* ⊆ **Z** ∗ *<sup>p</sup>* denote the subgroup of quadratic residues of order *q*. Given *m* ∈ **Z***q*, define *h* : **Z***<sup>q</sup>* → *G* by

$$h(m) := \begin{cases} m+1, & \text{if } (m+1)^q \equiv 1 \pmod{p}, \\ -(m+1) \bmod p, & \text{otherwise.} \end{cases}$$

Decoding *M* ∈ *G* is performed by interpreting *M* as an integer in **Z***<sup>p</sup>* and outputting

$$m := \begin{cases} M - 1, & \text{if } M \le q, \\ p - M - 1, & \text{otherwise.} \end{cases}$$

By Euler's criterion, (*m* + 1)*<sup>q</sup>* ≡ 1 (mod *p*) holds if and only if *m* + 1 is a quadratic residue modulo *p*, which guarantees that *h*(*m*) ∈ *G*. The mapping *h* is efficiently computable and invertible.

## <span id="page-34-0"></span>**A.3 Secret Sharing**

**Definition 10 (***t***-out-of-***n* **secret sharing scheme).** *A t-out-of-n secret sharing scheme is a pair of algorithms* (share*,* reconstruct)*, such that:*

- **–** (*s*1*, . . . , sn*) ← share(*s, n, t*; *ρ*) *is a randomized algorithm that, on input a secret s, outputs a set of n shares* (*s*1*, . . . , sn*) *using randomness ρ and fixes the threshold t.*
- **–** *s* ← reconstruct(*s<sup>i</sup>*<sup>1</sup> *, . . . , s<sup>i</sup><sup>t</sup>* ) *is a deterministic algorithm that on input t shares* (*s<sup>i</sup>*<sup>1</sup> *, . . . , s<sup>i</sup><sup>t</sup>* )*, where* (*i*1*, ..., it*) ⊂ [*n*]*, outputs the secret s.*

*A secret sharing scheme must satisfy the following properties:*

**Correctness:** ∀*s,* ∀*T* = (*i*1*, ..., it*) ⊂ [*n*]*,* ∀*ρ we have:*

$$\Pr_{\mathtt{share}(s,n,t;\rho) \to (s_1,\ldots,s_n)}[\mathtt{reconstruct}(s_{i_1},\ldots,s_{i_t}) = s] = 1.$$

{35}------------------------------------------------

**Perfect Security:** ∀*s, s*′ *,* ∀*I* ⊆ {1*, . . . , n*}*,* ∀*ρ where* |*I*| *< t, the following distributions are indistinguishable:*

$$\{(s_i:i\in I)\mid (s_1,\ldots,s_n)\leftarrow \mathtt{share}(s,n,t;\rho)\}$$
$$\{(s_i':i\in I)\mid (s_1',\ldots,s_n')\leftarrow \mathtt{share}(s',n,t;\rho)\}$$

## <span id="page-35-0"></span>**A.4 Multi-string Non-Interactive Zero-knowledge Proofs.**

We follow the definition of a multi-string NIZK (mNIZK) from [\[KRY24\]](#page-31-12) and restate it here for completeness. We refer to [\[KRY24\]](#page-31-12) for further details.

**Definition 11 (multi-string NIZK scheme).** *A* mNIZK *scheme for an NP relation* R<sup>L</sup> *has the following algorithms:*

mNIZK*.*Gen(1*<sup>λ</sup>* ) → **crs** *: An algorithm to generate a common reference string. In the multi-string model comprising of n common reference strings, we let crs* = (*crs*1*, . . . , crsn*) *denote the vector of the n common reference strings.* Prove(**crs***, ϕ, w*) → *π***:** *An algorithm run by the prover that, given the vector of common reference strings crs, statement ϕ and the witness w outputs the proof π that* (*ϕ, w*) ∈ RL*.*

Verify(**crs***, ϕ, π*) → accept*/*reject**:** *An algorithm that, given the vector of common reference strings crs, statement ϕ and the proof π verifies whether π proves the existence of a witness w such that* (*ϕ, w*) ∈ RL*.*

*The rest of the algorithms are only necessary for proofs of security, and will not be used in the real world:*

S1(1*<sup>λ</sup>* ) → (**crs***, τ* )**:** *A simulation algorithm that generates a simulated reference string and a simulation trapdoor.*

S2(**crs***, ϕ, τ* ) → *π***:** *A simulation algorithm that, given the vector of common reference strings crs, statement ϕ and a vector τ containing t<sup>z</sup> (where t<sup>z</sup> is a pre-defined threshold for the multi-string NIZK proof system) simulation trapdoors for common reference strings in crs, outputs a simulated proof of the existence of a witness w such that* (*ϕ, w*) ∈ RL*.*

E1(1*<sup>λ</sup>* ) → (**crs***, ξ*)**:** *A simulation algorithm that generates a simulated reference string and an extraction trapdoor.*

E2(**crs***, ϕ, π, ξ*) → *w***:** *An extraction algorithm that, given the vector of common reference strings crs, statement ϕ, a valid proof π and a vector ξ containing t<sup>s</sup> (where t<sup>s</sup> is a pre-defined threshold for the multi-string NIZK proof system) extraction trapdoors for common reference strings in crs, outputs a witness w such that* (*ϕ, w*) ∈ RL*.*

SE1(1*<sup>λ</sup>* ) → (**crs***, τ, ξ*)**:** *A simulation algorithm that outputs a simulated reference string, a simulation trapdoor and an extraction trapdoor such that* (*crs, τ* ) *is distributed as the output of* S1*, and* (*crs, ξ*) *is distributed as the output of* E1*.*

{36}------------------------------------------------

Properties We require the following properties from a  $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$  multi-string NIZK proof system for an NP relation  $\mathcal{R}_{\mathcal{L}}$  (as defined in the work [GO07]).

 $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -Completeness. Informally, this property requires that if at least  $t_c$  out of n common reference strings are honest, then the prover holding a witness for the statement should be able to create a convincing proof. More formally, for all non-uniform polynomial time adversaries A,

$$\Pr\left[ \mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, \pi) = 1 \middle| (\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, w) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{mNIZK.Gen}}(1^{\lambda}) \middle| \geq 1 - \mathrm{negl}(\lambda) \right]$$

where mNIZK.Gen on query i output  $crs_i \leftarrow mNIZK.Gen(1^{\lambda})$ , at least  $t_c$  of the  $crs_i$ 's generated by mNIZK.Gen are included and  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs  $(\phi, w) \in \mathcal{R}_{\mathcal{L}}$ , and negl is a negligible function in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

We use multi-string NIZKs with perfect  $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -completeness for all  $0 \le t_c \le n$  in our protocol. This means that even if the adversary chooses all common reference strings itself, we are guaranteed to output an acceptable proof when  $(\phi, w) \in \mathcal{R}_{\mathcal{L}}$ .

 $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -Soundness. Informally, this property requires that if at least  $t_s$  out of n common random strings are honestly generated, then an adversary cannot forge the proof. The adversary gets to see possible choices of correctly generated common reference strings and can adaptively choose n of them. It may also include up to  $n-t_s$  fake common reference strings it itself chooses. More formally, for all adversaries A,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, \pi) = 1 \text{ and } \phi \notin \mathcal{L} : (\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, \pi) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{mNIZK.Gen}}(1^{\lambda})] \leq \operatorname{negl}(\lambda)$$

where mNIZK.Gen is an oracle that on query i outputs  $\mathbf{crs}_i \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK.Gen}(1^{\lambda})$ , the adversary outputs  $\overline{\mathbf{crs}}$  such that at least  $t_s$  of the  $\mathbf{crs}_i$ 's generated by mNIZK.Gen are included, and negl is a negligible function in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

 $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -Zero Knowledge. Informally, this property requires that if  $t_z$  common reference strings are correctly generated, then the adversary learns nothing from the proof. As is standard in the zero-knowledge literature, we say that this is the case when the proof can be simulated given only the statement  $\phi$ .

The definition of zero-knowledge is split into the following two parts.

Reference String Indistinguishability This property simply says that the adversary cannot distinguish real common reference strings from simulated reference strings. More formally, for all non-uniform polynomial time adver-

{37}------------------------------------------------

saries A,

$$\begin{vmatrix} \Pr[\mathcal{A}(\textit{crs}) = 1 | \textit{crs} \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK}.\mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda})] \\ -\Pr[\mathcal{A}(\textit{crs}) = 1 | (\textit{crs}, \tau) \leftarrow \mathsf{S}_1(1^{\lambda})] \end{vmatrix} \leq \operatorname{negl}(\lambda)$$

for a negligible function negl in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

 $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -Simulation Indistinguishability This property strengthens the standard definition of zero-knowledge and requires that even with access to the simulation trapdoors, the adversary cannot distinguish real proofs from simulated ones on a set of simulated reference strings. More formally, for all non-uniform polynomial time adversaries A,

$$\begin{vmatrix} \Pr[\mathcal{A}(\pi) = 1 | (\overline{crs}, \overline{\tau}, \phi, w) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{S}_1}(1^{\lambda}); \pi \leftarrow \mathsf{Prove}(\overline{crs}, \phi, w)] \\ -\Pr[\mathcal{A}(\pi) = 1 : (\overline{crs}, \overline{\tau}, \phi, w) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{S}_1}(1^{\lambda}); \pi \leftarrow \mathsf{S}_2(\overline{crs}, \overline{\tau}, \phi)] \end{vmatrix} \leq \operatorname{negl}(\lambda),$$

where  $S_1$  on query i outputs  $(crs_i, \tau_i) \leftarrow S_1(1^{\lambda})$ , the adversary outputs  $(\phi, w) \in \mathcal{R}_{\mathcal{L}}$  and  $\overline{crs}, \overline{\tau}$  such that at least  $t_z$  of the  $crs_i$ 's generated by  $S_1$  are included and  $\overline{\tau}$  contains  $t_z$  simulation trapdoors  $\tau_i$  corresponding to  $crs_i$ 's that have been generated by the oracle  $S_1$ , and negl is a negligible function in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

 $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -Knowledge. Informally, this property requires the existence of probabilistic polynomial time algorithms  $\mathsf{E}_1$  and  $\mathsf{E}_2$  that can extract a witness from a valid proof.

Like the definition of zero-knowledge, the definition is split into two parts.

Reference String Indistinguishability For all non-uniform polynomial time adversaries A,

$$\begin{vmatrix} \Pr[\mathcal{A}(\textit{crs}) = 1 | \textit{crs} \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK}.\mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda})] \\ -\Pr[\mathcal{A}(\textit{crs}) = 1 | (\textit{crs}, \xi) \leftarrow \mathsf{E}_1(1^{\lambda})] \end{vmatrix} \leq \operatorname{negl}(\lambda)$$

where negl is a negligible function in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

Extractability For all non-uniform polynomial time adversaries A,

$$\Pr\left[ \mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, \pi) = 1, (\phi, w) \notin \mathcal{R}_{\mathcal{L}} \middle| (\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, \pi) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{E}_1}(1^{\lambda}) \\ w \leftarrow \mathsf{E}_2(\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, w, \overline{\xi}) \right] \leq \operatorname{negl}(\lambda)$$

{38}------------------------------------------------

where  $\mathsf{E}_1$  is an oracle that returns  $(\mathbf{crs}_i, \xi_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{E}_1(1^{\lambda})$ ,  $\overline{\xi}$  contains at least  $t_s$   $\xi_i$ 's corresponding to the  $\mathbf{crs}_i$ 's generated by  $\mathsf{E}_1$ , and negl is a negligible function in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

 $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -Simulation Soundness. Informally, this property requires that an adversary cannot prove any false statement even after seeing simulated proofs of arbitrary statements. More formally, for all non-uniform polynomial time adversaries A, the following probability is negligible in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

$$\Pr[\mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, \pi) = 1, (\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, \pi) \notin Q, \phi \notin \mathcal{L} | (\overline{\mathit{crs}}, \phi, \pi) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{S}_1, \mathsf{S}_2}(1^{\lambda})]$$

where  $S_1$  on query i returns  $(crs_i, \tau_i) \leftarrow S_1(1^{\lambda})$ ,  $S_2$  on query  $(\overline{crs}_j, \phi_j)$  returns  $\pi_j \leftarrow S_2(\overline{crs}_j, \overline{\tau}_j, \phi_j)$  with  $\overline{\tau}_j$  having simulation trapdoors for the  $crs_i$ 's generated by  $S_1$ , the adversary produces  $\overline{crs}_j$  containing at least  $t_s$   $crs_i$ 's generated by  $S_1$ , Q is the list of statements and corresponding proofs  $(\overline{crs}_j, \phi_j, \pi_j)$  in the queries to  $S_2$ .

 $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -Simulation Extractability. Informally, this property requires that even after seeing many simulated proofs, whenever the adversary makes a new proof, we should be able to extract a witness. More formally, a multistring NIZK proof system is  $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -simulation extractable if it has  $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -knowledge, is a  $(t_c, t_s, t_z, n)$ -NIZK proof (i.e. completeness, soundness and zero-knowledge hold for the relevant thresholds), and for all non-uniform polynomial time adversaries  $\mathcal{A}$ ,

$$\Pr\left[ \begin{array}{c} \mathsf{Verify}(\overline{crs},\phi,\pi) = 1, \\ (\overline{crs},\phi,\pi) \notin Q, \\ (\phi,w) \notin \mathcal{R}_{\mathcal{L}} \end{array} \middle| (\overline{crs},\phi,\pi) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{SE}'_1,\mathsf{S}_2}(1^{\lambda}), \\ w \leftarrow \mathsf{E}_2(\overline{crs},\phi,\pi,\overline{\xi}) \end{array} \right] \leq \operatorname{negl}(\lambda)$$

where  $\mathsf{SE}_1'$  on query i returns  $(\boldsymbol{crs}_i, \xi_i)$  from  $(\boldsymbol{crs}_i, \tau_i, \xi_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{SE}_1(1^{\lambda})$ ,  $\mathsf{S}_2$  on query  $(\overline{\boldsymbol{crs}}_j, \phi_j)$  returns  $\pi_j \leftarrow \mathsf{S}_2(\overline{\boldsymbol{crs}}_j, \overline{\tau}_j, \phi_j)$  (where  $\overline{\tau}_j$  contains  $t_z$   $\tau_i$ 's corresponding to  $\boldsymbol{crs}_i$ 's in  $\overline{\boldsymbol{crs}}_j$  generated by  $\mathsf{SE}_1$ ), Q is the list of statements and corresponding proofs  $(\overline{\boldsymbol{crs}}_j, \phi_j, \pi_j)$  made by  $\mathsf{S}_2$ ,  $\overline{\xi}$  contains the first  $t_s$   $\xi_i$ 's generated by  $\mathsf{SE}_1$  corresponding to  $\boldsymbol{crs}_i$ 's in  $\overline{\boldsymbol{crs}}$ , and negl is a negligible function in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

The above property of simulation extractability implies simulation-soundness.

Instantiation In our constructions, we use the  $(0, t_s, t_z, n)$  multi-string NIZK with  $t_s = t_z = \lceil (n+1)/2 \rceil$  of [GO07], which relies on enhanced trapdoor permutations and satisfies the properties outlined above.

## <span id="page-38-0"></span>A.5 Garbling Scheme

<span id="page-38-1"></span>**Definition 12.** [DRSY23b] A garbling scheme with independent key generation  $\mathcal{G}$  is a pair of algorithms (KGen, garble, Eval) defined as follows.

{39}------------------------------------------------

- $\mathbf{K} \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^\lambda, \mathsf{L}, \rho^{\mathsf{GC}})$ : The algorithm  $\mathsf{KGen}$  takes as input a unary representation of the security parameter  $\lambda$  and a number of input wires and outputs  $\mathsf{L}$  pairs of garbled labels  $\mathbf{K} = (K_0^1, K_1^1, \dots, K_0^\mathsf{L}, K_1^\mathsf{L})$ . For simplicity, we assume that for every  $i \in [\mathsf{L}]$  and  $b \in \{0, 1\}$ , it holds that  $K_b^i \in \{0, 1\}^\lambda$ .
- (GC)  $\stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow}$  garble(1 $^{\lambda}$ , C,  $\mathbf{K}$ ,  $\rho^{\text{GC}}$ ): The algorithm garble takes as input a unary representation of the security parameter  $\lambda$ , a Boolean circuit  $C: \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{L}} \to \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{m}}$  and keys  $\mathbf{K}$ , and outputs a garbled circuit  $\mathsf{GC}$ .
- $-y \leftarrow \operatorname{Eval}(\operatorname{GC}, K^1, \dots, K^L)$ : The algorithm Eval takes as input the garbled circuit GC and L garbled labels  $K^1, \dots, K^L$ , and outputs a value  $y \in \{0, 1\}^m$ .

We require the following properties of a garbling scheme:

- **Perfect Correctness**. We say  $\mathcal{G}$  satisfies perfect correctness if for any Boolean circuit  $C: \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{L}} \to \{0,1\}^m$  and  $x = (x_1, \ldots, x_{\mathsf{L}})$  it holds that

$$\Pr[\mathsf{Eval}(\mathsf{GC},\mathbf{K}[x]) = C(x)] = 1,$$

where  $\mathbf{K} \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^{\lambda},\mathsf{L},\rho^{\mathsf{KGen}})$  with  $\mathbf{K} = (K^{0,1},K^{1,1},\ldots,K^{0,\mathsf{L}},K^{1,\mathsf{L}}),$   $\mathsf{GC} \leftarrow \mathsf{garble}(1^{\lambda},C,\mathbf{K},\rho^{\mathsf{GC}}),$  and  $\mathbf{K}[x] := (K^{x_1,1},\ldots,K^{x_{\mathsf{L}},\mathsf{L}}).$ 

- **Privacy.** We say that  $\mathcal{G}$  satisfies privacy if there exists a simulator simGC such that for every PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , it holds that

$$\Pr[\mathtt{GC^{priv}} = 1] \le \frac{1}{2} + \operatorname{negl}(\lambda),$$

where GC<sup>priv</sup> experiment is defined in the following figure:

### The garbling scheme privacy experiment GC<sup>priv</sup>.

- 1.  $\mathcal{A}$  constructs a circuit  $C: \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{L}} \to \{0,1\}^m$ , outputs an input  $x = (x_1,\ldots,x_{\mathsf{L}}) \in \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{L}}$  and sends them to the challenger.
- 2. The challenger chooses a random bit  $b \in \{0, 1\}$  and does the following: (a) If b = 0:
  - Sample labels  $\mathbf{K} \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^{\lambda}, \mathsf{L}, \rho^{\mathsf{KGen}})$ .
  - Sample garbled circuit  $GC \leftarrow garble(1^{\lambda}, C, \mathbf{K}, \rho^{GC})$ .
  - $\operatorname{Set} K^i := K^{x_i,i} \text{ for } i \in [\mathsf{L}].$
  - (b) If b = 1:
    - Sample labels  $\mathbf{K} \leftarrow \mathsf{KGen}(1^{\lambda},\mathsf{L},\rho^{\mathsf{KGen}}), \text{ s.t. only one label is sampled for every wire.}$
    - Sample simulated garbling  $GC \leftarrow sim GC(C, C(x), \mathbf{K}, \rho^{GC})$ .
    - $\operatorname{Set} K^i := K^{x_i,i} \text{ for } i \in [\mathsf{L}].$
- 3. The challenger sends  $GC, K^1, \ldots, K^L$  to A.
- 4.  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a bit b'.
- 5.  $\mathcal{A}$  wins if b = b', and we say that the experiment evaluates to 1 in this case.

{40}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-40-0"></span>B Hybrids for Proof of Theorem 3

**Hybrid**  $H_0$  (Real World): Execute the protocol as in a real execution, using the honest parties' inputs.

**Hybrid**  $H_1$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_0$ , except that for each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , the  $\mathtt{crs}_i$  is generated as a part of a triple  $(\mathtt{crs}_i, \tau_i, \xi_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK.SE}_1(1^{\lambda})$ .

Claim. Hybrids  $H_0$  and  $H_1$  are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{H} = \{\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}\}$  denote the set of honest parties, where  $h = |\mathcal{H}|$ . For  $k \in \{0, \dots, h\}$ , define hybrid experiment  $\mathsf{H}_0^k$  as follows:

- For the first k honest parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_{i_k}$ , generate their crs as in  $\mathsf{H}_1$ :  $(\mathsf{crs}_i, \tau_i, \xi_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK.SE}_1(1^{\lambda}).$
- For the remaining honest parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_{k+1}}, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}$ , generate their crs as in  $\mathsf{H}_0$ :  $\mathsf{crs}_i \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK}.\mathsf{Gen}(\rho_i^{\mathsf{crs}})$ .

Observe that  $\mathsf{H}_0^0$  is identical to  $\mathsf{H}_0$ , and  $\mathsf{H}_0^h$  is identical to  $\mathsf{H}_1$ .

It therefore suffices to show that for every  $k \in \{0, \ldots, h-1\}$ , hybrids  $\mathsf{H}_0^k$  and  $\mathsf{H}_0^{k+1}$  are computationally indistinguishable. For any fixed k, assume adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  distinguishes these hybrids with non-negligible advantage. Then we construct an adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{mNIZK}}$  that internally runs  $\mathcal{A}$  and simulates its view using the  $\mathsf{crs}$  provided by the  $\mathsf{mNIZK}$  challenger. If  $\mathcal{A}$  distinguishes the hybrids, this implies that it can distinguish whether the  $\mathsf{crs}_i$  for some honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$  was generated using  $\mathsf{mNIZK}$ . Gen or as part of  $(\mathsf{crs}_i, \tau_i, \xi_i) \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK}$ . SE<sub>1</sub>(1 $^{\lambda}$ ).  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{mNIZK}}$  uses this distinguishing advantage to break reference string indistinguishability of the  $\mathsf{mNIZK}$  scheme.

By applying this argument iteratively over all h pairs of hybrid experiments, we conclude that  $H_0$  and  $H_1$  are computationally indistinguishable.

**Hybrid**  $H_2$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_1$ , except that for each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , the proof for relation  $\mathcal{R}_{\mathsf{IA}}$  is generated using  $\pi^i_{\mathsf{IA}} \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK}.\mathsf{S}_2(\overline{\mathsf{crs}},\phi^i_{\mathsf{IA}},\overline{\tau})$ .

Claim. Hybrids  $H_1$  and  $H_2$  are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{H} = \{\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}\}$  denote the set of honest parties, where  $h = |\mathcal{H}|$ . For  $k \in \{0, \dots, h\}$ , define hybrid experiment  $\mathsf{H}_1^k$  as follows:

- For the first k honest parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_k}$ , generate their proofs as in  $\mathsf{H}_2$ :  $\pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^i \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK.S}_2(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^i, \overline{\tau}).$
- For the remaining honest parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_{k+1}}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}$ , generate their proofs as in  $\mathsf{H}_1$ :  $\pi^i_{\mathsf{IA}} \leftarrow \mathsf{mNIZK}.\mathsf{Prove}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi^i_{\mathsf{IA}}, w^i)$ .

Observe that  $H_1^0$  is identical to  $H_1$ , and  $H_1^h$  is identical to  $H_2$ .

It therefore suffices to consider an arbitrary  $k \in \{0, \dots, h-1\}$  and argue that  $\mathsf{H}^k_1$  is indistinguishable from  $\mathsf{H}^{k+1}_1$ . The adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  already has access to the simulated reference strings and the corresponding simulation trapdoors for all corrupt parties (it can generate them using  $\mathsf{mNIZK}.S_1$ ). Suppose  $\mathcal{A}$  detects this change with non-negligible advantage. We then build a distinguisher  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{mNIZK}}$  for the simulation indistinguishability experiment of  $\mathsf{mNIZK}$ 

{41}------------------------------------------------

by running  $\mathcal{A}$  and answering all queries as in the hybrid, except that the pivot honest party's proof is obtained from the challenger. If  $\mathcal{A}$  distinguishes the hybrids, it follows that  $\mathcal{A}_{mNIZK}$  distinguishes whether  $\pi_{IA}^i$  was produced by Prove or by  $S_2$ , contradicting simulation indistinguishability.

By applying this argument iteratively over all h pairs of hybrid experiments, we conclude that  $H_1$  and  $H_2$  are computationally indistinguishable.

**Hybrid**  $H_3$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_2$ , except that for every corrupt party  $\mathcal{P}_j \in I$ , whenever  $\text{Verify}(\overline{\mathtt{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j) = \mathtt{accept}$ , the simulator extracts a witness as  $w_{\mathsf{IA}}^j \leftarrow \mathsf{E}_2(\overline{\mathtt{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \overline{\xi})$  and aborts if the extraction fails.

Claim. Hybrids  $H_2$  and  $H_3$  are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{H} = \{\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}\}$  denote the set of honest parties, where  $h = |\mathcal{H}|$ . For  $k \in \{0, \dots, h\}$ , define hybrid experiment  $\mathsf{H}_2^k$  as follows:

- For the first k honest parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_{i_k}$ , act as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_3$ , i.e., whenever a corrupt party  $\mathcal{P}_j \in I$  produces a proof  $\pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j$  such that  $\mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathtt{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j) = \mathsf{accept}$ , extract a witness  $w_{\mathsf{IA}}^j \leftarrow \mathsf{E}_2(\overline{\mathtt{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \overline{\xi})$  and abort with message  $\mathsf{abort}_j$  if extraction fails;
- For the remaining honest parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_{k+1}}, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}$ , act as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_2$ , i.e., do not extract.

Observe that  $\mathsf{H}_2^0$  is identical to  $\mathsf{H}_2$ , and  $\mathsf{H}_2^h$  is identical to  $\mathsf{H}_3$ . It therefore suffices to show that for every  $k \in \{0, \ldots, h-1\}$ , hybrids  $\mathsf{H}_2^k$  and  $\mathsf{H}_2^{k+1}$  are computationally indistinguishable.

Assume, for contradiction, that  $\mathcal{A}$  distinguishes Hybrids  $H_2$  and  $H_3$  with non-negligible advantage. We show how to turn  $\mathcal{A}$  into an adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{mNIZK}}$  for the simulation extractability experiment. The reduction runs  $\mathcal{A}$  while answering all simulated  $\mathsf{crs}$  and simulated proof queries via  $\mathsf{SE}_1$  and  $\mathsf{S}_2$ , thereby producing an execution distributed as required by the hybrid. Now note that the only way the two hybrids differ is when  $\mathcal{A}$  causes an accepting corrupt-party proof for which the extraction fails. Hence, if  $\mathcal{A}$  distinguishes, it must (with non-negligible probability) produce some  $(\phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j)$  such that  $\mathsf{Verify}(\overline{\mathsf{crs}}, \phi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j, \pi_{\mathsf{IA}}^j) = \mathsf{accept}$  but extraction fails. In that case  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{mNIZK}}$  outputs this triple, violating simulation extractability.

In particular, this also implies that the adversary cannot violate simulation soundness.

**Hybrid**  $H_4$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_3$ , except that for each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , the pair of labels in  $\mathbf{K}_i$  used in a given execution of OPTI are identical. We let this label be the "active" label for the message bit to which this execution of OPTI corresponds.

In honest parties' garbled circuits, two different labels are still used (the circuit is garbled honestly, as before). Corrupt party messages are extracted from their secret sharings, and honest parties' circuits are garbled so as to place the "active" label in the position corresponding to the messages used.

Claim. Hybrids  $H_3$  and  $H_4$  are computationally indistinguishable.

{42}------------------------------------------------

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{H} = \{\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}\}$  denote the set of honest parties, where  $h = |\mathcal{H}|$ . For simplicity, assume that the private messages are of size 1 bit. For  $k \in \{0, \dots, h\}$ , define hybrid experiment  $\mathsf{H}_3^k$  as follows:

- For parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_{k-1}}$ , generate labels as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_4$ .
- For parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_{k+1}}, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}$ , generate labels as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_3$ .
- For the party  $\mathcal{P}_{i_k}$ , generate labels using the sender-privacy challenger of OPTI as in the game: whenever a label pair for some wire is needed, sample  $K_0$ ,  $K_1$  and submit the two candidate sender inputs  $(K_0, K_1)$  and  $(K_0, K_0)$  to the challenger (note that depending on the bit chosen by the challenger, the labels are either picked as in  $H_3$  or  $H_4$ . Use the messages returned by the challenger to complete the simulation for  $\mathcal{A}$ .

Observe that  $\mathsf{H}_3^0$  is identical to  $\mathsf{H}_3$  and  $\mathsf{H}_3^h$  is identical to  $\mathsf{H}_4$ . It therefore suffices to show that for every  $k \in \{0, \ldots, h-1\}$ , hybrids  $\mathsf{H}_3^k$  and  $\mathsf{H}_3^{k+1}$  are computationally indistinguishable.

Assume adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  could distinguish between the two hybrids. Then we can construct an adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{OPTI}}$  that breaks the sender privacy property of OPTI. The adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{OPTI}}$  internally runs  $\mathcal{A}$  and provides it with a simulated view of the hybrid execution. If the challenger uses input  $(K_0, K_1)$ , then the labels of  $\mathcal{P}_{i_k}$  are distributed as in Hybrid H<sub>3</sub>; if the challenger uses input  $(K_0, K_0)$ , then the labels of  $\mathcal{P}_{i_k}$  are distributed as in Hybrid H<sub>4</sub>. Therefore,  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{OPTI}}$  can use  $\mathcal{A}$ 's output to distinguish the challenger's choice with the same non-negligible advantage, contradicting sender privacy of OPTI.

By applying this argument iteratively over k = 0, ..., h-1, we conclude that Hybrids  $H_3$  and  $H_4$  are computationally indistinguishable.

**Hybrid** H<sub>5</sub>: Same as Hybrid H<sub>4</sub>, except that for each honest party  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , the garbled circuit is generated using  $GC_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} simGC(C, msg_i^2, \mathbf{K}_i, \rho_i^{GC})$ , where for each  $i \in \mathcal{H}$ ,  $msg_i^2$  is computed honestly as  $msg_i^2 \leftarrow snd-msg(x_i, \rho_i, \{msg_j^1\}_{j \in [n]}, \{msg_{j \to i}^1\}_{j \in [n]})$ .

Claim. Hybrids H<sub>4</sub> and H<sub>5</sub> are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{H} = \{\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}\}$  denote the set of honest parties, where  $h = |\mathcal{H}|$ . For  $k \in \{0, \dots, h\}$ , define hybrid experiment  $\mathsf{H}_4^k$  as follows:

- For parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_{k-1}}$ , generate garbled circuits as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_5$ :  $\mathsf{GC}_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{sim}\mathsf{GC}(C, \mathsf{msg}_i^2, \mathbf{K}_i, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}).$
- For parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_{k+1}}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}$ , generate garbled circuits as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_4$ :  $\mathsf{GC}_i \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{garble}(C, \mathbf{K}_i, \rho_i^{\mathsf{GC}}).$
- For the party  $\mathcal{P}_{i_k}$ , generate the garbled circuit using the privacy challenger of the garbling scheme as in the game  $GC^{priv}$ : submit the circuit C and the corresponding input used in the protocol execution, and obtain from the challenger either (i) an honestly generated garbled circuit and matching labels, or (ii) a simulated garbled circuit and matching labels (depending on the challenger's hidden bit).

{43}------------------------------------------------

Observe that  $\mathsf{H}_4^0$  is identical to  $\mathsf{H}_4$  and  $\mathsf{H}_4^h$  is identical to  $\mathsf{H}_5$ . It therefore suffices to show that for every  $k \in \{0, \ldots, h-1\}$ , hybrids  $\mathsf{H}_4^k$  and  $\mathsf{H}_4^{k+1}$  are computationally indistinguishable.

Assume  $\mathcal{A}$  distinguishes Hybrids  $\mathsf{H}_4^k$  and  $\mathsf{H}_4^{k+1}$  for some  $k \in \{0, \ldots, h\}$ . We build an adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{GC}}$  for the garbling-privacy experiment. The reduction runs  $\mathcal{A}$  and simulates the hybrid execution, generating all parties' garbled circuits honestly except for the pivot party  $\mathcal{P}_{i_k}$ . For this pivot,  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{GC}}$  submits the circuit C and the relevant input to the privacy challenger and uses the returned  $(\mathsf{GC}_{i_k}, \mathbf{K}_{i_k})$  in the simulation.

If the challenger returns a garbled circuit, generated as  $GC_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} garble(C, \mathbf{K}_{i_k}, \rho_{i_k}^{GC})$ , then the garbled circuit of  $\mathcal{P}_{i_k}$  is distributed as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_4^k$ ; if the challenger returns a simulated garbled circuit, generated as  $\mathsf{GC}_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{sim}\mathsf{GC}(C, \mathsf{msg}_{i_k}^2, \mathbf{K}_{i_k}, \rho_{i_k}^{GC})$ , then it is distributed as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_4^{k+1}$ . Consequently, any distinguishing advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  transfers to  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{GC}}$ , contradicting privacy of the garbling scheme.

By applying this argument iteratively over k = 0, ..., h-1, we conclude that  $H_4$  and  $H_5$  are computationally indistinguishable.

Finally, note that in Hybrid  $H_5$  the simulated garbled circuits may no longer correspond to a true statement for the relation proven by the associated mNIZK proofs. However, this does not affect the above argument, since the mNIZK proofs were already replaced by simulated proofs in Hybrid  $H_2$ , and hence the adversary cannot detect any inconsistency between the simulated garbled circuits and the simulated proofs.

**Hybrid**  $H_6$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_5$ , except that honest parties' inputs to OPTI corresponding to their private first-round messages to each other, i.e.,  $\{\mathsf{msg}_{i\to k}^1\}_{i,k\in\mathcal{H}}$ , are set to 0.

Claim. Hybrids H<sub>5</sub> and H<sub>6</sub> are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{H} = \{\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}\}$  denote the set of honest parties, where  $h = |\mathcal{H}|$ . For simplicity, assume that the private messages are of size 1 bit. For  $k, l \in \{0, \dots, h\}$ , define hybrid experiment  $\mathsf{H}_5^{(k,l)}$  as follows:

- For parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_{i_{k-1}}$ , generate the private messages they send to other honest parties as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_6$ .
- For parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_{k+1}}, \dots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}$ , generate the private messages they send to other honest parties as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_5$ .
- For the party  $\mathcal{P}_{i_k}$ , generate the private messages it sends to parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_{i_{l-1}}$  as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_6$  and the private messages it sends to parties  $\mathcal{P}_{i_{l+1}}, \ldots, \mathcal{P}_{i_h}$  as in Hybrid  $\mathsf{H}_5$ . For the private message sent to party  $\mathcal{P}_l$ , obtain it from the challenger in the privacy game of OPTI as follows. Submit  $(K_l^{(\alpha,0)}, K_l^{(\alpha,1)})$  to the challenger, where  $\alpha$  denotes the wire position corresponding to the private message  $\mathsf{msg}_{i_k \to i_l}^1$  in the garbled circuit of  $\mathcal{P}_{i_l}$ . Use the messages returned by the challenger to complete the simulation for  $\mathcal{A}$ .

{44}------------------------------------------------

Observe that  $H_5^{(0,0)}$  is identical to  $H_5$  and  $H_5^{(h,h)}$  is identical to  $H_6$ . It therefore suffices to show that for every  $k, l \in \{0, ..., h-1\}$  the following hold:

- Hybrids  $\mathsf{H}_5^{(k,l)}$  and  $\mathsf{H}_5^{(k,l+1)}$  are computationally indistinguishable. Hybrids  $\mathsf{H}_5^{(k,h)}$  and  $\mathsf{H}_5^{(k+1,0)}$  are computationally indistinguishable.

Assume adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  could distinguish between the two hybrids. Then we can construct an adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{OPTI}}$  that breaks the privacy property of OPTI. The adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{OPTI}}$  internally runs  $\mathcal{A}$  and provides it with a simulated view of the hybrid execution. Depending on the challenger's bit, the messages are either distributed as in  $H_5$  or as in  $H_6$ . Therefore,  $\mathcal{A}_{OPTI}$  can use  $\mathcal{A}$ 's output to distinguish the challenger's choice with the same non-negligible advantage, contradicting privacy of OPTI.

By applying this argument iteratively over all choices of k and l, we conclude that hybrids H<sub>5</sub> and H<sub>6</sub> are computationally indistinguishable.

**Hybrid**  $H_7$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_6$ , except that the honest parties' messages to corrupt parties are replaced as follows:

- Obtain the honest parties' first-round messages from  $\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{UA}}$ .
- Extract each corrupt party's private message from the secret sharings in OPTI.
- Invoke  $\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{UA}}$  using the broadcast and private messages from corrupt to honest parties  $\{(\mathsf{msg}_j^1, \{\mathsf{msg}_{j\to i}^1\}_{i\in\mathcal{H}})\}_{j\in I}$ .

  – Obtain the extracted corrupt parties' inputs from the ideal functionality
- query issued by  $\mathcal{S}_{\mathsf{UA}}$ .
- Query the ideal functionality to obtain output y, forward y to  $S_{UA}$ , and receive the honest parties' second-round broadcast messages.

Claim. Hybrids H<sub>6</sub> and H<sub>7</sub> are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Assume towards contradiction that there exists a non-uniform PPT adversary A that distinguishes Hybrids  $H_6$  and  $H_7$  with non-negligible probability. We use A to construct an adversary  $A_{\mathsf{UA}}$  that breaks the  $\mathsf{UA}$ -security of the underlying protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{UA}}$ .

Recall that in Hybrid H<sub>7</sub>, the honest parties' messages sent to corrupt parties are generated using the simulator  $S_{UA}$ , whereas in Hybrid H<sub>6</sub> these messages are produced according to an honest execution of  $\Pi_{UA}$ .

The adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{UA}}$  internally runs  $\mathcal{A}$  and simulates for it the execution of the protocol as follows. The adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{UA}}$  interacts with the real or simulated honest parties in an execution of  $\Pi_{UA}$ ; it uses the messages it receives from those real or simulated honest parties to run the code of Hybrid 7. If the honest parties are real, this will be distributed exactly as Hybrid 6; if they are simulated, this will be distributed exactly as Hybrid 7. Once  $\mathcal{A}$  makes its guess,  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{UA}}$  makes the same guess; it distinguishes correctly exactly when  $\mathcal{A}$ does.

Therefore, any non-negligible distinguishing advantage of A between Hybrids  $H_6$  and  $H_7$  directly translates into a non-negligible advantage for  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{UA}}$ in distinguishing between the real and ideal executions in the UA-security experiment for  $\Pi_{UA}$ . This contradicts the assumed IA-security of  $\Pi_{UA}$ . Hence, Hybrids H<sub>6</sub> and H<sub>7</sub> are computationally indistinguishable.

{45}------------------------------------------------

**Hybrid**  $H_8$ : Same as Hybrid  $H_7$ , except that for every pair of parties, for every execution of OPTI, S does the following:

- a) For any execution in which  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}$  acts as S with input b and  $\mathcal{P}_{i_2}$  acts as R with input  $(x_0, x_1)$ , where  $\{i_1, i_2\} \subseteq \mathcal{H}$ , if there exists  $k \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}^k_{\mathsf{output}} \in \{\mathsf{abort}, \mathsf{abort}_\mathsf{S}, \mathsf{abort}_\mathsf{R}, x\}$  for  $x \neq x_b$ , stop the simulation.
- b) For any execution in which  $\mathcal{P}_i$  acts as S with input b and  $\mathcal{P}_j$  acts as R with input  $(x_0, x_1)$ , where  $i \in \mathcal{H}$  and  $j \in I$ , if there exists  $k \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}^k_{\mathsf{output}} \in \{\mathsf{abort}, \mathsf{abort}_\mathsf{S}, x\}$  for  $x \notin \{x_0, x_1\}$ , stop the simulation.
- c) For any execution in which  $\mathcal{P}_j$  acts as S with input b and  $\mathcal{P}_i$  acts as R with input  $(x_0, x_1)$ , where  $i \in \mathcal{H}$  and  $j \in I$ , if there exists  $k \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}^k_{\mathsf{output}} \in \{\mathsf{abort}, \mathsf{abort}_\mathsf{R}\}$ , stop the simulation.
- d) For any execution in which  $\mathcal{P}_{j_1}$  acts as S with input b and  $\mathcal{P}_{j_2}$  acts as R with input  $(x_0, x_1)$ , where  $\{j_1, j_2\} \subseteq I$ , if there exists  $k \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}_{\mathsf{output}}^k = \mathsf{abort}$ , stop the simulation.
- e) If there exist  $\mathcal{P}_{i_1}, \mathcal{P}_{i_2} \in \mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{OPTI}^{i_1}_{\mathsf{output}} \neq \mathsf{OPTI}^{i_2}_{\mathsf{output}}$ , stop the simulation.

Claim. Hybrids H<sub>7</sub> and H<sub>8</sub> are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Notice that cases (a)-(e) listed above correspond exactly to the events under which an adversary wins the OPTI identifiability game.

Assume towards contradiction that there exists an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that distinguishes Hybrids  $H_7$  and  $H_8$  with non-negligible advantage. We construct an adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{OPTI}}$  that breaks the identifiability property of OPTI.

The adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{IA}$  internally runs  $\mathcal{A}$  and simulates the view of the protocol execution exactly as in Hybrid  $H_7$ . Whenever the simulation reaches an execution of OPTI,  $\mathcal{A}_{IA}$  forwards the corresponding messages to the identifiability challenger and uses the responses returned by the challenger to continue the simulation.

If during the simulation the transcript satisfies any of the conditions (a)-(e), then  $\mathcal{A}_{IA}$  outputs the transcript as a successful winning instance for the identifiability game. Observe that Hybrid H<sub>9</sub> aborts exactly in this event, however, by the identifiability property of OPTI, the probability that an adversary produces a transcript satisfying any of the winning conditions is negligible. Hence, the probability that Hybrid H<sub>8</sub> aborts while Hybrid H<sub>7</sub> does not is negligible and therefore H<sub>7</sub> and H<sub>8</sub> are computationally indistinguishable.

The proof is completed by noting that, in Hybrid H<sub>8</sub>, the simulator no longer depends on any hidden information of the functionality, and honest parties output the correct output or agree on a corrupt party to blame, as per the definition of security with identifiable abort (Definition 7). Therefore, Hybrid H<sub>8</sub> is identically distributed as the ideal-world experiment.