# tardigrade: An Atomic Broadcast Protocol for Arbitrary Network Conditions

Erica Blum<sup>1</sup> , Jonathan Katz1? , and Julian Loss2??

> <sup>1</sup> University of Maryland {erblum,jkatz2}@umd.edu 2 lossjulian@gmail.com

Abstract. We study the problem of atomic broadcast—the underlying problem addressed by blockchain protocols—in the presence of a malicious adversary who corrupts some fraction of the n parties running the protocol. Existing protocols are either robust for any number of corruptions in a synchronous network (where messages are delivered within some known time ∆) but fail if the synchrony assumption is violated, or tolerate fewer than n/3 corrupted parties in an asynchronous network (where messages can be delayed arbitrarily) and cannot tolerate more corruptions even if the network happens to be well behaved.

We design an atomic broadcast protocol (tardigrade) that, for any t<sup>s</sup> ≥ t<sup>a</sup> with 2t<sup>s</sup> + t<sup>a</sup> < n, provides security against t<sup>s</sup> corrupted parties if the network is synchronous, while remaining secure when t<sup>a</sup> parties are corrupted even in an asynchronous network. We show that tardigrade achieves optimal tradeoffs between t<sup>s</sup> and ta. Finally, we show a second protocol (upgrade) with similar (but slightly weaker) guarantees that achieves per-transaction communication complexity linear in n.

Keywords: Atomic broadcast · Byzantine agreement · Consensus.

### 1 Introduction

Atomic broadcast [10] is a fundamental problem in distributed computing that can be viewed as a generalization of Byzantine agreement (BA) [21,33]. Roughly speaking, a BA protocol allows a set of n parties to agree on a value once, even if some parties are Byzantine, i.e., corrupted by an adversary who may cause them to behave arbitrarily. In contrast, an atomic broadcast (ABC) protocol allows parties to repeatedly agree on values by including them a totally-ordered, append-only log maintained by all parties. (Formal definitions are given in Section 3. Note that ABC is not obtained by simply repeating a BA protocol multiple times; this point is discussed further below.) Atomic broadcast is used as a

<sup>?</sup> Work performed under financial assistance award 70NANB19H126 from the U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology, and also supported in part by NSF award #1837517.

<sup>??</sup> Portions of this work were done while at the University of Maryland and Ruhr University Bochum.

building block for *state machine replication*, and has received renewed attention in recent years for its applications to blockchains and cryptocurrencies.

Different network models for atomic broadcast can be considered. In a synchronous network [2,8,15,19,29], all messages are delivered within some known time  $\Delta$ . In an asynchronous network [16,26], messages can be delayed arbitrarily. (Some work assumes the partially synchronous model [13], where messages are delivered within some time bound  $\Delta$  that is unknown to the parties. We do not consider this model in our work.) Assuming a public-key infrastructure (PKI), atomic broadcast is feasible for  $t_s < n$  adversarial corruptions in a synchronous network, but only for  $t_a < n/3$  faults in an asynchronous network. A natural question is whether it is possible to design a protocol that can withstand strictly more than n/3 faults if the network happens to be synchronous, without entirely sacrificing security if the network happens to be asynchronous. More precisely, fix two thresholds  $t_a, t_s$  with  $t_a \leq t_s$ . Is it possible to design a network-agnostic atomic broadcast protocol that (1) tolerates  $t_s$  corruptions if it is run in a synchronous network and (2) tolerates  $t_a$  corruptions if it is run in an asynchronous network? Depending on one's assumptions about the probabilities of different events, a network-agnostic protocol could be preferable to either a purely synchronous protocol (which loses security if the network is asynchronous) or a purely asynchronous one (which loses security if there are n/3 or more faults).

We settle the above question in a model where there is a trusted dealer who distributes information to the parties in advance of the protocol execution:

- We present an atomic broadcast protocol, TARDIGRADE,<sup>1</sup> that achieves the above for any  $t_a, t_s$  satisfying  $t_a + 2t_s < n$ . We also prove that no atomic broadcast protocol can provide the above guarantees<sup>2</sup> if  $t_a + 2t_s \ge n$ , and so TARDIGRADE is optimal in terms of the thresholds it tolerates.
- We also describe a second protocol, UPGRADE, that is sub-optimal in terms of  $t_a, t_s$  but has asymptotic communication complexity comparable to state-of-the-art asynchronous atomic broadcast protocols (see Table 1).

To see how TARDIGRADE can be advantageous to either a fully synchronous or a fully asynchronous protocol, consider the following concrete example. Fix  $t_a, t_s$  with  $t_a < n/3 \le t_s$  and  $2t_s + t_a < n$ , and let f(t) be the probability that the number of faults is strictly greater than t. Suppose  $f(t_a) = 1/10$ ,  $f(\lfloor \frac{n-1}{3} \rfloor) = 1/20$ , and  $f(t_s) = 0$ , and the probability that the network delay ever exceeds the assumed bound is  $p_{\Delta} = 1/10$ . Then a purely synchronous protocol fails to provide security with probability  $p_{\Delta} = 1/10$ , while a purely asynchronous protocol fails to provide security with probability  $f(\lfloor \frac{n-1}{3} \rfloor) = 1/20$ . But TARDIGRADE (with parameters  $t_a, t_s$ ) fails to provide security only with probability  $f(t_s) + p_{\Delta} \cdot f(t_a) = 1/100$ .

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Tardigrades, also called water bears, are microscopic animals known for their ability to survive in extreme environments.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> This does not contradict the existence of synchronous ABC protocols for  $t_s < n$ , since such protocols are insecure in an asynchronous setting even if no parties are corrupted.

| Protocol             | Communication Network model |                  |
|----------------------|-----------------------------|------------------|
| HoneyBadger [26]     | O(n ·  tx )                 | Asynchronous     |
| BEAT1 / BEAT2 [12]   | 2<br>O(n<br>·  tx )         | Asynchronous     |
| Dumbo1 / Dumbo2 [16] | O(n ·  tx )                 | Asynchronous     |
| tardigrade           | 2<br>O(n<br>·  tx )         | Network-agnostic |
| upgrade              | O(n ·  tx )                 | Network-agnostic |

Table 1. Per-transaction communication complexity of ABC protocols, for transactions of length |tx|, assuming infinite block size and suppressing dependence on the security parameter for simplicity.

Our work is inspired by work of Blum et al. [5], who show analogous results (with the same thresholds) for the simpler problem of Byzantine agreement. We emphasize that ABC is not realized by simply repeating a (multi-valued) BA protocol multiple times. In particular, the validity property of BA guarantees only that if a value is used as input by all honest parties then that transaction will be output by all honest parties. In the context of ABC, however, each honest party holds a local buffer containing multiple values called transactions. Transactions may arrive at arbitrary times, and there is no way to ensure that all honest parties will input the same transactions to some execution of an underlying BA protocol. (Although generic transformations from BA to ABC are known in other settings [9], no such transformation is known for the network-agnostic setting we consider.) Indeed, translating the approach of Blum et al. from BA to ABC introduces several additional challenges. In particular, as just noted, in the context of atomic broadcast there is no guarantee that honest parties ever use the same transaction, making it more challenging to prove liveness. A central piece of our construction is a novel protocol for the fundamental problem of asynchronous common subset (ACS). Our ACS protocol achieves non-standard security properties that turn out to be generally useful for constructing protocols in a network-agnostic setting; it has already served as a crucial ingredient in follow-up work [6] on network-agnostic secure computation.

#### 1.1 Related Work

There is extensive prior work on both Byzantine agreement and atomic broadcast/SMR/blockchain protocols; we do not provide an exhaustive survey, but instead focus only on the most closely related works.

Miller et al. [26] already note that well-known SMR protocols that tolerate malicious faults (e.g., [8,19]) fail to achieve liveness in an asynchronous network. The HoneyBadger protocol [26] is designed for asynchronous networks, but only handles t < n/3 faults even if the network is synchronous.

Several of the most prominent blockchain protocols rely on synchrony [15,29]; Nakamoto consensus, in particular, relies on the assumption that messages will be delivered much faster than the time required to solve proof-of-work puzzles, and is insecure if the network latency is too high or nodes become (temporarily) partitioned from the network.

We focus on designing a single protocol that may be run in either a synchronous or asynchronous network while providing security guarantees in either case. Related work includes that of Malkhi et al. [25] and Momose and Ren [27], who consider networks that may be either synchronous or partially synchronous; Liu et al. [22], who design a protocol that tolerates a minority of malicious faults in a synchronous network and a minority of fail-stop faults in an asynchronous network; and Guo et al. [17] and Abraham et al. [2], who consider temporary disconnections between two synchronous network components.

A different line of work [23,24,30,31] designs protocols with good responsiveness. Roughly, such protocols still require synchrony, but terminate in time proportional to the actual message-delivery time δ rather than the upper bound on the network-delivery time ∆. Kursawe [20] gives a protocol for an asynchronous network that terminates more quickly if the network is synchronous (but does not tolerate more faults in that case). Finally, other work [3, 11, 14, 32] considers a model where synchrony is available for some (known) period of time, and the network is asynchronous afterward.

#### 1.2 Paper Organization

We describe our model in Section 2, and give formal definitions in Section 3. In Section 4, we describe a protocol for the asynchronous common subset (ACS) problem. Then, in Section 5, we show how to construct a network-agnostic atomic broadcast protocol (tardigrade) achieving optimal security tradeoffs using ACS and other building blocks. In Section 6, we present a second atomic broadcast protocol (upgrade) that achieves per-transaction communication complexity linear in n at the cost of tolerating fewer corruptions.

### 2 Model

We consider protocols run by n parties P1, . . . , Pn, over point-to-point authenticated channels. Some fraction of these parties are controlled by an adversary, and may deviate arbitrarily from the protocol. For simplicity, we generally assume a static adversary who corrupts parties prior to the start of the protocol; in Section 5.6, however, we do briefly discuss how tardigrade can be modified to tolerate an adaptive adversary who may corrupt parties as the protocol is executed. Parties who are not corrupted are called honest.

In our model, the network has two possible states. The state is fixed prior to the beginning of the execution; however, the state is not known to the honest parties. When the network is synchronous, all parties begin the protocol at the same time, parties' clocks progress at the same rate, and all messages are delivered within some known time ∆ after they are sent. The adversary is able to adaptively delay and reorder messages arbitrarily (subject to the bound ∆). When the network is asynchronous, the adversary is able to delay messages for arbitrarily long periods of time (as long as all messages are eventually delivered). The parties still have local clocks in the asynchronous setting; however, in this case their clocks are only assumed to be monotonically increasing. In particular, parties' clocks are not necessarily synchronized, and they may start the protocol at different times.

We assume the network is either synchronous or asynchronous for the lifetime of the protocol. A more general model would consider a network that alternates between periods of synchrony and asynchrony. Our adaptively secure protocol (cf. Section 5.6) tolerates an asynchronous network that later becomes synchronous so long as the attacker does not exceed t<sup>a</sup> corruptions until all iterations initiated while the network was asynchronous are complete, and does not exceed t<sup>s</sup> corruptions overall. Handling a synchronous network that later becomes asynchronous is only interesting if some mechanism is provided to "uncorrupt" parties (as in the proactive setting). This is outside our model, and we leave treatment of this case as an interesting direction for future work.

We assume a trusted dealer who initializes parties with some information prior to execution of the protocol. Specifically, we assume the dealer distributes keys for threshold signature and encryption schemes, each secure for up to t<sup>s</sup> corruptions. In a threshold signature scheme there is a public key pk, private keys sk1, . . . , skn, and (public) signature verification keys (pk1, . . . , pkn). Each party P<sup>i</sup> receives sk<sup>i</sup> , pk, and (pk1, . . . , pkn), and can use its secret key sk<sup>i</sup> to create a signature share σ<sup>i</sup> on a message m. A signature share from party P<sup>i</sup> on a message m can be verified using the corresponding public verification key pk<sup>i</sup> (and is called valid if it verifies successfully); for this reason, we can also view such a signature share as a signature by P<sup>i</sup> on m. We often write hmi<sup>i</sup> as a shorthand for the tuple (i, m, σi), where σ<sup>i</sup> is a valid signature share on m with respect to P<sup>i</sup> 's verification key, and implicitly assume that invalid signature shares are discarded. A set of t<sup>s</sup> + 1 valid signature shares on the same message can be used to compute a signature for that message, which can be verified using the public key pk; a signature σ on a message m is called valid if it verifies successfully with respect to pk. We always implicitly assume that parties use some form of domain separation when signing to ensure that signature shares are valid only in the context in which they are generated.

In a threshold encryption scheme, there is a public encryption key ek, (private) decryption keys dk1, . . . , dkn, and public verification keys vk1, . . . , vk<sup>n</sup> that can be used, as above, to verify that a decryption share is correct (relative to a particular ciphertext). A party P<sup>i</sup> can use its decryption key dk<sup>i</sup> to generate a decryption share of a ciphertext c; any set of t<sup>s</sup> + 1 correct decryption shares enable recovery of the underlying message m. Security requires that no collection of t<sup>s</sup> parties can decrypt on their own.

We idealize the threshold signature and encryption schemes for simplicity, but they can be instantiated using any of several known protocols; in particular, we only require CPA-security for the threshold encryption scheme. We assume that signature shares and signatures have size O(κ), where κ is the security parameter; this is easy to ensure using a collision-resistant hash function. We assume that encrypting a message m of length |m| produces a ciphertext of length |m| + O(κ), and that decryption shares have length O(κ); these are easy to ensure using standard KEM/DEM mechanisms.

### 3 Definitions

In this section, we formally define atomic broadcast and relevant subprotocols. Throughout, when we say a protocol achieves some property, we include the case where it achieves that property with overwhelming probability in a security parameter κ. Additionally, in some cases we consider protocols where parties may not terminate even upon generating output; for this reason, we mention termination explicitly in our definitions when applicable.

Many of the definitions below are parameterized by a threshold t. This will become relevant in later sections, where we will often analyze a protocol's properties in a synchronous network with t<sup>s</sup> corruptions, as well as in an asynchronous network with t<sup>a</sup> corruptions.

#### 3.1 Broadcast and Byzantine Agreement

A reliable broadcast protocol allows parties to agree on a value chosen by a designated sender. Honest parties are not guaranteed to terminate; hence, reliable broadcast is weaker than standard broadcast. However, if there is some honest party who terminates, then all honest parties terminate.

Definition 1 (Reliable broadcast). Let Π be a protocol executed by parties P1, . . . , Pn, where a designated sender P <sup>∗</sup> ∈ {P1, . . . , Pn} begins holding input v ∗ and parties terminate upon generating output.

- Validity: Π is t-valid if the following holds whenever at most t parties are corrupted: if P ∗ is honest, then every honest party outputs v ∗ .
- Consistency: Π is t-consistent if the following holds whenever at most t parties are corrupted: either no honest party outputs a value, or all honest parties output the same value v.

If Π is t-valid and t-consistent, then we say it is t-secure.

We reserve the term "broadcast" for reliable broadcast. When a party P<sup>i</sup> sends a message m to all parties (over point-to-point channels), we say that P<sup>i</sup> multicasts m.

Byzantine agreement (BA) is closely related to broadcast. In a BA protocol, there is no designated sender; instead, each party has their own input and the parties would like to agree on an output.

Definition 2 (Byzantine agreement). Let Π be a protocol executed by parties P1, . . . , Pn, where each party P<sup>i</sup> begins holding input v<sup>i</sup> ∈ {0, 1}.

- Validity: Π is t-valid if the following holds whenever at most t of the parties are corrupted: if every honest party's input is equal to the same value v, then every honest party outputs v.
- Consistency: Π is t-consistent if whenever at most t parties are corrupted, every honest party outputs the same value v ∈ {0, 1}.
- Termination: Π is t-terminating if whenever at most t parties are corrupted, every honest party terminates with some output in {0, 1}.

If Π is t-valid, t-consistent, and t-terminating, then we say it is t-secure.

#### 3.2 Asynchronous Common Subset

Informally, a protocol for the asynchronous common subset (ACS) problem [4] allows n parties, each with some input, to agree on a subset of those inputs. (The term "asynchronous" in the name is historical, and one can also consider protocols for this task in the synchronous setting.)

Definition 3 (ACS). Let Π be a protocol executed by parties P1, . . . , Pn, where each P<sup>i</sup> begins holding input v<sup>i</sup> ∈ {0, 1} ∗ , and parties output sets of size at most n.

- Validity: Π is t-valid if the following holds whenever at most t parties are corrupted: if every honest party's input is equal to the same value v, then every honest party outputs {v}.
- Consistency: Π is t-consistent if whenever at most t parties are corrupted, all honest parties output the same set S.
- Liveness: Π is t-live if whenever at most t parties are corrupted, every honest party generates output.

If Π is t-consistent, t-valid, and t-live, we say it is t-secure.

For our analysis, it will be helpful to define a few additional properties.

#### Definition 4 (ACS properties). Let Π be as above.

- Set quality: Π has t-set quality if the following holds whenever at most t parties are corrupted: if an honest party outputs a set S, then S contains the input of at least one honest party.
- Validity with termination: Π is t-valid with termination if, whenever at most t parties are corrupted and every honest party's input is equal to the same value v, then every honest party outputs {v} and terminates.
- Termination: Π is t-terminating if whenever at most t parties are corrupted, every honest party generates output and terminates.

#### 3.3 Atomic Broadcast

Protocols for atomic broadcast (ABC) allow parties to maintain agreement on an ever-growing, ordered log of transactions. An atomic broadcast protocol does not terminate but instead continues indefinitely. We model the local log held by each party P<sup>i</sup> as a write-once array Blocks<sup>i</sup> = Blocks<sup>i</sup> [1], Blocks<sup>i</sup> [2], . . .. Each Blocks<sup>i</sup> [j] is initially set to a special value ⊥. We say that P<sup>i</sup> outputs a block in iteration j when P<sup>i</sup> writes a set of transactions to Blocks<sup>i</sup> [j]; similarly, for each i, j such that Blocks<sup>i</sup> [j] 6= ⊥, we refer to Blocks<sup>i</sup> [j] as the block output by P<sup>i</sup> in iteration j. For convenience, we let Blocks<sup>i</sup> [k : `] denote the contiguous subarray Blocks<sup>i</sup> [k], . . . , Blocks<sup>i</sup> [`] and let Blocks<sup>i</sup> [: `] denote the prefix Blocks<sup>i</sup> [1 : `].

For simplicity, we imagine that each party P<sup>i</sup> has a local buffer buf <sup>i</sup> , and that transactions are added to parties' local buffers by some mechanism external to the protocol (e.g., via a gossip protocol). Whenever P<sup>i</sup> outputs a block, they delete from their buffer any transactions that have already been added to their log. We emphasize that a particular transaction tx may be provided as input to different parties at arbitrary times, and may be provided as input to some honest parties but not others.

Definition 5 (Atomic broadcast). Let Π be a protocol executed by parties P1, . . . , P<sup>n</sup> who are provided with transactions as input and locally maintain arrays Blocks as described above.

- Completeness: Π is t-complete if the following holds whenever at most t parties are corrupted: for all j > 0, every honest party outputs a block in iteration j.
- Consistency: Π is t-consistent if the following holds whenever at most t parties are corrupted: if an honest party outputs a block B in iteration j then all honest parties output B in iteration j.
- Liveness: Π is t-live if the following holds whenever at most t parties are corrupted: if every honest party is provided a transaction tx as input, then every honest party eventually outputs a block that contains tx.

If Π is t-consistent, t-live, and t-complete, then we say it is t-secure.

In the above definition, a transaction tx is only guaranteed to be contained in a block output by an honest party if every honest party receives tx as input. A stronger definition might require that a transaction is output even if only a single honest party receives tx as input; however, it is easy to achieve the latter from the former by requiring honest parties to forward new transactions they receive to the rest of the parties in the network.

### 4 ACS with Higher Validity Threshold

A key component of our atomic broadcast protocol is an ACS protocol for asynchronous networks that is secure when the number of corrupted parties is below a fixed threshold ta, and guarantees validity up to a higher threshold ts. More precisely, fix t<sup>a</sup> ≤ t<sup>s</sup> with t<sup>a</sup> + 2 · t<sup>s</sup> < n; we show a ta-secure ACS protocol that achieves ta-termination, ts-validity with termination, and ta-set quality. Throughout this section, we assume an asynchronous network. (Of course, the protocol achieves the same guarantees in a synchronous network.)

Our protocol is adapted from the ACS protocol of Ben-Or et al. [4] (later adapted by Miller et al. [26]), which is built using subprotocols for reliable broadcast and Byzantine agreement. We present our construction in two steps: first, we describe an ACS protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$  (cf. Figure 1) that is  $t_a$ -secure and has  $t_a$ -set quality, but is non-terminating. Then, we construct a second protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  (cf. Figure 2) that uses  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$  as a subprotocol.  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  inherits security and set quality from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$ , and additionally achieves  $t_a$ -termination and  $t_s$ -validity with termination.

**Protocol**  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$ . At a high level, an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$  involves one instance of reliable broadcast and one instance of Byzantine agreement per party  $P_i$ , denoted  $\mathsf{Bcast}_i$  and  $\mathsf{BA}_i$ , respectively. Informally,  $\mathsf{Bcast}_i$  is used to broadcast  $P_i$ 's input  $v_i$ , and  $\mathsf{BA}_i$  is used to determine whether  $P_i$ 's input will be included in the final output. When a party receives output  $v_i'$  from  $\mathsf{Bcast}_i$ , they input 1 to  $\mathsf{BA}_i$ . Once a party has received output from  $n-t_a$  broadcasts, they input 0 to any  $\mathsf{BA}$  instances they have not yet initiated. Each party keeps track of which  $\mathsf{BA}$  instances have output 1 using a local variable  $S^* := \{i : \mathsf{BA}_i \text{ output } 1\}$ . At the end of the protocol, if a party observes a majority value v in the set of values  $\{v_i'\}_{i \in S^*}$ , it outputs the singleton set  $\{v\}$ ; otherwise, it outputs  $\{v_i'\}_{i \in S^*}$ , i.e., the set of all values broadcast by parties in  $S^*$ .

We assume an ABA subprotocol that is secure for  $t_a < n/3$  corruptions and has communication complexity  $O(n^2)$ , such as the ABA protocol of Mostéfaoui et al. [28]. We also assume an asynchronous reliable broadcast protocol Bcast that is  $t_s$ -valid and  $t_a$ -consistent with communication complexity  $O(n^2 |v|)$ . It is straightforward to adapt Bracha's (asynchronous) reliable broadcast protocol [7] to achieve these properties; an example construction can be found in Appendix A.1.

**Lemma 1.** Fix  $t_s, t_a$  with  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ , and assume there are at most  $t_s$  corrupted parties during some execution of  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}$ . If an honest party  $P_i$  outputs a set  $S_i$ , then  $\exists v_j \in S_i$  such that  $v_j$  was input by an honest party  $P_j$ .

*Proof.* We show that  $P_i$ 's output  $S_i$  always includes a value that was output from an execution of Bcast where the corresponding sender is honest. The lemma follows from  $t_s$ -validity of Bcast.

Suppose  $P_i$  generates output due to Event 1, so  $S_i$  is a singleton set  $\{v\}$ .  $P_i$  must have received v as output from at least  $n - t_s$  executions of  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}$ . Because  $n - 2t_s > t_a \ge 0$ , at least one of those corresponds to an honest sender.

Next, suppose  $P_i$  generates output due to Event 2. Again,  $S_i$  is a singleton set  $\{v\}$ .  $P_i$  must have seen at least  $\lfloor \frac{|S^*|}{2} \rfloor + 1$  broadcast instances terminate with output v, and furthermore  $|S^*| \geq n - t_a$ . Therefore,  $P_i$  has seen at least  $\lfloor \frac{n-t_a}{2} \rfloor + 1 \geq \lfloor \frac{2t_s}{2} \rfloor + 1 > t_s$  executions of  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}$  terminate with output v. Since there are at most  $t_s$  corrupted parties, at least one of those executions must correspond to an honest sender.

Finally, suppose  $P_i$  generates output due to Event 3, so  $S_i = \{v_i'\}_{i \in S^*}$ . Since there are at most  $t_s$  corrupted parties and  $|S^*| - t_s \ge n - t_a - t_s > t_s \ge 0$ , at least one party in  $S^*$  is honest.

```
\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}
```

- Set commit := false and  $S^* := \emptyset$ .
- Run Bcast<sub>j</sub> as the sender with input  $v_j$ , and for each  $i \neq j$  run Bcast<sub>i</sub> with  $P_i$  as the sender.
- Upon Bcast<sub>i</sub> terminating with output  $v'_i$ : if  $P_j$  has not yet begun running BA<sub>i</sub> then begin running it with input 1.
- Upon  $BA_i$  terminating with output 1: add i to  $S^*$ .
- Upon setting  $|S^*|$  to  $n t_a$ : for any  $BA_i$  that  $P_j$  has not yet begun running, begin running  $BA_i$  with input 0.

#### **Predicates:**

- $C_1(v)$ : at least  $n-t_s$  executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i\in[n]}$  have output v.
  - $C_1$ :  $\exists v$  for which  $C_1(v)$  is true.
- $C_2(v)$ :  $|S^*| \ge n t_a$ , all executions  $\{BA_i\}_{i \in [n]}$  have terminated, and a strict majority of the executions  $\{Bcast_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  have output v.
  - $C_2$ :  $\exists v$  for which  $C_2(v)$  is true.
  - C<sub>3</sub>:  $|S^*| \ge n t_a$ , all executions  $\{BA_i\}_{i \in [n]}$  have terminated, and all executions  $\{B\mathsf{Cast}_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  have terminated.

#### Output conditions:

- (Event 1) If  $C_1(v) = \text{true for some } v \text{ and commit} = \text{false then:}$  set commit := true and output  $\{v\}$ .
- (Event 2) If  $C_1 = \text{false}$ ,  $C_2(v) = \text{true for some } v$ , and commit = false then: set commit := true and output  $\{v\}$ .
- (Event 3) If  $C_1=C_2=$  false,  $C_3=$  true, and commit = false then: set commit := true and output  $\{v_i'\}_{i\in S^*}$ .

**Fig. 1.** An ACS protocol, from the perspective of party  $P_j$  with input  $v_j$ .

### **Lemma 2.** If $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ , then $\Pi_{ACG^*}^{t_a, t_s}$ is $t_s$ -valid.

*Proof.* Assume at most  $t_s$  parties are corrupted, and all honest parties have the same input v. By  $t_s$ -validity of Bcast, at least  $n-t_s$  executions of  $\{Bcast_i\}$  (namely, those for which the sender is honest) will eventually output v. It follows that all honest parties eventually set  $C_1(v) = \text{true}$ , at which point they will output  $\{v\}$  if they have not already generated output. It only remains to show that there is no other set an honest party can output.

If an honest party generates output S due to Events 1 or 2, then S is a singleton set. Since all honest parties have input v, Lemma 1 implies  $S = \{v\}$ .

To conclude, we show that no honest party can generate output due to Event 3. Assume toward a contradiction that some honest party P generates output due to Event 3. Then P must have seen  $\mathsf{Bcast}_i$  terminate (say, with output  $v_i$ ) for all  $i \in S^*$ . Since also  $|S^*| \geq n - t_a > 2t_s$ , a majority of those executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  correspond to honest senders and so (by  $t_s$ -validity of  $\mathsf{Bcast}$ ) resulted in output v. But then  $C_2(v)$  would be true for P, and P would not generate output due to Event 3.

**Lemma 3.** Fix  $t_a \leq t_s$  with  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ , and assume at most  $t_a$  parties are corrupted during an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$ . If honest parties  $P_1, P_2$  output sets  $S_1, S_2$ , respectively, then  $S_1 = S_2$ .

*Proof.* Say  $P_1$  generates output due to event i and  $P_2$  generates output due to event j, and assume without loss of generality that  $i \leq j$ . We consider the different possibilities.

First, assume i = 1 so Event 1 occurs for  $P_1$  and  $S_1 = \{v_1\}$  for some value  $v_1$ . We have the following sub-cases:

- If Event 1 also occurs for  $P_2$ , then  $S_2 = \{v_2\}$  for some value  $v_2$ .  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  must have each seen some set of at least  $n t_s > n/2$  executions of  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}$  output  $v_1$  and  $v_2$ , respectively. The intersection of these sets is non-empty; thus,  $t_a$ -consistency of Bcast implies that  $v_1 = v_2$  and hence  $S_1 = S_2$ .
- If Event 2 occurs for  $P_2$ , then once again  $S_2 = \{v_2\}$  for some  $v_2$ .  $P_2$  must have  $|S^*| \ge n t_a$ , and must have seen at least  $\left\lfloor \frac{|S^*|}{2} \right\rfloor + 1 \ge \left\lfloor \frac{n t_a}{2} \right\rfloor + 1$  executions of  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}$  output  $v_2$ . Moreover,  $P_1$  must have seen at least  $n t_s$  executions of  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}$  output  $v_1$ . Since

$$n - t_s + \left| \frac{n - t_a}{2} \right| + 1 \ge n - t_s + \left| \frac{2t_s}{2} \right| + 1 > n,$$
 (1)

these two sets of executions must have a non-empty intersection. But then  $t_a$ -consistency of Bcast implies that  $v_1 = v_2$  and hence  $S_1 = S_2$ .

- If Event 3 occurs for  $P_2$  then  $P_2$  must have seen all executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  terminate, where  $|S^*| \geq n - t_a$ . We know  $P_1$  has seen at least  $n - t_s$  executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in [n]}$  output  $v_1$ , and so (by  $t_a$ -consistency of  $\mathsf{Bcast}$ ) there are at most  $t_s$  executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in [n]}$  that  $P_2$  has seen terminate with a value other than  $v_1$ . The number of executions of  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  that  $P_2$  has seen terminate with output  $v_1$  (which is at least  $(n - t_a) - t_s > t_s$ ) is thus strictly greater than the number of executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  that  $P_2$  has seen terminate with a value other than  $v_1$  (which is at most  $t_s$ ). But then  $C_2(v_1)$  would be true for  $P_2$ . We conclude that Event 3 cannot occur for  $P_2$ .

Next, assume i=j=2, so Event 2 occurs for  $P_1$  and  $P_2$ . Then  $S_1=\{v_1\}$  and  $S_2=\{v_2\}$  for some  $v_1,v_2$ . Both  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  must have seen all executions  $\{\mathsf{BA}_i\}_{i\in[n]}$  terminate. By  $t_a$ -consistency of  $\mathsf{BA}$ , they must therefore agree on  $S^*$ .  $P_1$  must have seen a majority of the executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i\in S^*}$  output  $v_1$ ; similarly,  $P_2$  must have seen a majority of the executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i\in S^*}$  output  $v_2$ . Then  $t_a$ -consistency of  $\mathsf{Bcast}$  implies  $v_1=v_2$ .

Finally, consider the case where j=3 (so Event 3 occurs for  $P_2$ ) but i>1 (so  $P_1$  generates output due either to Event 2 or 3). As above,  $t_a$ -consistency of BA ensures that  $P_1$  and  $P_2$  agree on  $S^*$ . Moreover,  $P_2$  must have seen all executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i\in S^*}$  terminate, but without any value being output by a majority of those executions. But then  $t_a$ -consistency of Bcast implies that  $P_1$  also does not see any value being output by a majority of those executions, and so Event 2 cannot occur for  $P_1$ ; thus, Event 3 must have occurred for  $P_1$ . Therefore,  $t_a$ -consistency of Bcast implies that  $P_1$  outputs the same set as  $P_2$ .

**Lemma 4.** If  $t_a \leq t_s$  and  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ , then  $\Pi_{ACS^*}^{t_a,t_s}$  is  $t_a$ -live.

*Proof.* It follows easily from  $t_a$ -security of Bcast and BA that if any honest party generates output then all honest parties generate output, so consider the case where no honest parties have (yet) generated output. Let H denote the indices of the honest parties. By  $t_s$ -validity of Bcast, all honest parties eventually see the executions  $\{Bcast_i\}_{i\in H}$  terminate, and so all honest parties input a value to the executions  $\{BA_i\}_{i\in H}$ . By  $t_a$ -security of BA, all honest parties eventually see those executions terminate and agree on their outputs. There are now two cases:

- If all executions  $\{BA_i\}_{i\in H}$  output 1, then it is immediate that all honest parties have  $|S^*| \ge n t_a$ .
- If  $\mathsf{BA}_i$  outputs 0 for some  $i \in H$ , then (by  $t_a$ -validity of  $\mathsf{BA}$ ) some honest party P must have used input 0 when running  $\mathsf{BA}_i$ . But then P must have seen at least  $n-t_a$  other executions  $\{\mathsf{BA}_i\}$  output 1. By  $t_a$ -consistency of  $\mathsf{BA}$ , this implies that all honest parties see at least  $n-t_a$  executions  $\{\mathsf{BA}_i\}$  output 1, and hence have  $|S^*| \geq n-t_a$ .

Since all honest parties have  $|S^*| \geq n - t_a$ , they all execute  $\{BA_i\}_{i \in [n]}$ . Once again,  $t_a$ -termination of BA implies that all those executions will eventually terminate. Finally, if  $i \in S^*$  for some honest party P then P must have seen  $BA_i$  terminate with output 1; then  $t_a$ -validity of BA implies that some honest party used input 1 when running  $BA_i$  and hence has seen  $Bcast_i$  terminate. It follows that P will see  $Bcast_i$  terminate. As a result, we see that every honest party can (at least) generate output due to Event 3.

**Lemma 5.** If  $t_a \le t_s$  and  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ , then  $\Pi_{ACS^*}^{t_a, t_s}$  has  $t_a$ -set quality.

Proof. If an honest party P outputs  $S=\{v\}$  due to Event 1, then P has seen at least  $n-t_s$  executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}$  terminate with output v. Of these, at least  $n-t_s-t_a>0$  must correspond to honest senders. By  $t_s$ -validity of Bcast, those honest parties must have all had input v, and so set quality holds. Alternatively, say P outputs a set  $\{v\}$  due to Event 2. Then P must have  $|S^*| \geq n-t_a$ , and at least  $\lfloor \frac{|S^*|}{2} \rfloor + 1 \geq \lfloor \frac{n-t_a}{2} \rfloor + 1 > t_a$  of the executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  output v. At least one of those executions must correspond to an honest party, and that honest party must have had input v (by  $t_s$ -validity of Bcast); thus, set quality holds. Finally, if P output a set S due to Event 3, then S contains every value output by  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  with  $|S^*| \geq n-t_a$ . Since  $S^*$  must contain at least one honest party, set quality follows as before.

**Theorem 1.** Fix  $t_a$ ,  $t_s$  with  $t_a \le t_s$  and  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ . Then  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{ACS^*}$  is  $t_a$ -secure and  $t_s$ -valid, and has  $t_a$ -set quality.

*Proof.* Lemma 2 proves  $t_s$ -validity. Lemmas 3 and 4 together prove  $t_a$ -liveness and  $t_a$ -consistency, and Lemma 6 proves  $t_a$ -set quality.

**Lemma 6.** If  $t_a \leq t_s$  and  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ , then  $\prod_{ACS^*}^{t_a, t_s}$  has  $t_a$ -set quality.

*Proof.* If an honest party P outputs  $S = \{v\}$  due to Event 1, then P has seen at least  $n-t_s$  executions {Bcast<sub>i</sub>} terminate with output v. Of these, at least  $n-t_s-t_a>0$  must correspond to honest senders. By  $t_s$ -validity of Bcast, those honest parties must have all had input v, and so set quality holds. Alternatively, say P outputs a set  $\{v\}$  due to Event 2. Then P must have  $|S^*| \geq n - t_a$ , and at least  $\lfloor \frac{|S^*|}{2} \rfloor + 1 \geq \lfloor \frac{n-t_a}{2} \rfloor + 1 > t_a$  of the executions  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i \in S^*}$  output v. At least one of those executions must correspond to an honest party, and that honest party must have had input v (by  $t_s$ -validity of Bcast); thus, set quality holds. Finally, if P output a set S due to Event 3, then S contains every value output by  $\{\mathsf{Bcast}_i\}_{i\in S^*}$ . Since  $|S^*| \geq n - t_a$ ,  $S^*$  must contain at least one honest party, and so set quality follows as before.

**Protocol**  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}$ . Protocol  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}$  does not guarantee termination. We transform  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}$  to a terminating ACS protocol  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}}$  using digital signatures. The parties first run  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$ . When a party  $P_i$  generates output  $S_i$  from that protocol, it then notifies the other parties by multicasting a signature share  $\langle \mathsf{commit}, S_i \rangle_i$  on  $S_i$ . Any party who receives enough signature shares to form a signature—or receives a signature directly—multicasts the signature to all other parties, outputs the corresponding set, and terminates.

- $\begin{array}{l} \ \mathrm{Run} \ \varPi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s} \ \mathrm{using \ input} \ v_j. \\ \ \mathrm{Upon \ receiving \ output} \ S_j \ \mathrm{from} \ \varPi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}, \ \mathrm{multicast} \ \langle \mathsf{commit}, S_j \rangle_j. \end{array}$
- Upon receiving  $t_s + 1$  signature shares of (commit, S), form a signature  $\sigma$  on (commit, S), multicast (commit, S,  $\sigma$ ), output S, and terminate.
- Upon receiving a valid signature  $\sigma$  of (commit, S), multicast (commit,  $S, \sigma$ ), output S, and terminate.

Fig. 2. A terminating ACS protocol, from the perspective of party  $P_j$  with input  $v_j$ .

## **Lemma 7.** $\Pi_{ACS}^{t_a,t_s}$ is $t_a$ -terminating

*Proof.* If one honest party terminates  $\Pi_{ACS}^{t_a,t_s}$  then all honest parties will eventually receive a valid signature and thus terminate  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . But as long as no honest parties has yet terminated,  $t_a$ -liveness of  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}$  implies that all honest parties will generate output from  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}$ ; moreover,  $t_a$ -consistency of  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}$  implies that all those outputs will be equal to the same set S. So the  $n-t_a \geq t_s+1$  honest parties will send signature shares on S to all parties, which means that all honest parties will terminate.

**Lemma 8.** Fix  $t_a, t_s$  with  $t_a \leq t_s$  and  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ . Then  $\Pi_{ACS}^{t_a, t_s}$  is  $t_a$ -secure,  $t_a$ -terminating, and  $t_s$ -valid with termination, and has  $t_a$ -set quality.

*Proof.* Lemma 7 implies that  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  is  $t_a$ -live as well as  $t_a$ -terminating. If an honest party outputs a set S from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ , then (as long as at most  $t_s$  parties are corrupted) at least one honest party must have output S from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . Thus,  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  inherits  $t_a$ -set quality,  $t_a$ -consistency, and  $t_s$ -validity (without termination) from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$  (cf. Theorem 1). It is straightforward to extend  $t_s$ -validity to  $t_s$ -validity with termination using an identical argument as in Lemma 7.

Communication complexity of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . Let |v| be the size of each party's input. Recall that each instance of Bcast has communication complexity  $O(n^2 |v|)$ , and each instance of BA has cost  $O(n^2)$ . Since the inner protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^*}^{t_a,t_s}$  consists of n parallel instances of Bcast and BA, the cost of the inner protocol is  $O(n^3 |v|)$ . In the remaining steps, each party sends a set of size at most n plus a signature share (or signature) to everyone else, contributing an additional  $O(n^2 \cdot (n |v| + \kappa))$  communication. The total communication for  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  is thus  $O(n^3 |v| + n^2 \kappa)$ .

#### 5 Network-Agnostic Atomic Broadcast

In this section, we show our main result: for any  $t_s \ge t_a$  with  $t_a + 2t_s < n$ , an atomic broadcast protocol that is  $t_s$ -secure in a synchronous network and  $t_a$ -secure in an asynchronous network.

#### 5.1 Technical Overview

At a high level, each iteration of the protocol consists of four main steps. First, there is an information-gathering phase in which each party sends its input to all other parties, and waits for a fixed amount of time to receive inputs from others. Any party who receives enough inputs during the first phase will use them as input to a synchronous block agreement (BLA) protocol  $\Pi^{t_s}_{BLA}$ . If the network is synchronous and at most  $t_s$  parties are corrupted, the BLA subprotocol will output a set of inputs that contains sufficiently many honest parties' inputs. The BLA subprotocol is run for a fixed amount of time, with the timeout chosen to ensure that (with high probability) it will terminate before the timeout if the network is synchronous. This brings us to the third phase, in which parties run the ACS protocol  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{ACS}$ . If a party received output from the BLA protocol before the timeout, they will use that as their input to the ACS subprotocol; otherwise, they wait until they have received sufficiently many inputs from other parties and use those. The final phase occurs once parties have received output from the ACS protocol. The parties use that output to form the next block.

The BLA and ACS protocols are designed to have complementary security properties. In particular, if the network is synchronous then the BLA protocol will ensure that all honest parties use the same input value B in the ACS protocol. This is exactly why  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  has  $t_s$ -validity with termination: so that that, in this case, all parties will be in agreement on the singleton set  $\{B\}$  after running  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . On the other hand, if the network is not synchronous and at most  $t_a$  parties are corrupted, it is possible that  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}^{t_s}$  will not succeed, and parties

may input different values to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . However, in this case  $t_a$ -security of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  ensures that the parties will agree on a set of values  $B = \{\beta_1, \beta_2, \dots\}$ . Moreover, the output-quality property ensures that at least a constant fraction of the values in B were contributed by honest parties.

#### 5.2 Block Agreement

We use a block-agreement protocol to agree on objects that we call pre-blocks. (The name alludes to their role in our eventual atomic broadcast protocol, where they will serve as an intermediate between parties' raw inputs and the final blocks.) A pre-block is a vector of length n whose ith entry is either  $\bot$  or a message along with a valid signature by  $P_i$  on that message. The quality of a pre-block is defined as the number of entries that are not  $\bot$ ; we say that a pre-block is a k-quality pre-block if it has quality at least k.

**Definition 6 (Block agreement).** Let  $\Pi$  be a protocol executed by parties  $P_1, \ldots, P_n$ , where parties terminate upon generating output.

- Validity:  $\Pi$  is t-valid if whenever at most t of the parties are corrupted and every honest party's input is an (n-t)-quality pre-block, then every honest party outputs an (n-t)-quality pre-block.
- Consistency: Π is t-consistent if whenever at most t of the parties are corrupted, every honest party outputs the same pre-block B.

If  $\Pi$  is t-valid and t-consistent, then we say it is t-secure.

A synchronous block-agreement protocol can be constructed using a straightforward adaptation of the *synod protocol* by Abraham et al. [1]. (For completeness, a construction and security analysis can be found in Appendix A.2.)

**Theorem 2.** Fix a maximum input length |m|. There is a block-agreement protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  with communication complexity  $O(n^3\kappa^2 + n^2\kappa|m|)$  that is t-secure for any t < n/2 when run in a synchronous network and terminates in time  $5\kappa\Delta$ .

#### 5.3 A Network-Agnostic Atomic Broadcast Protocol

We now describe our atomic broadcast protocol TARDIGRADE (cf. Figure 3), parameterized by thresholds  $t_s$  and  $t_a$ . Let L denote a desired maximum block size, i.e., the maximum number of transactions that can appear in a block. At a high level, parties agree on each new block via the following steps. First, each party  $P_i$  chooses a set  $V_i$  of L/n transactions from among the first L transactions in its local buffer. (We assume without loss of generality that parties always have at least L transactions in their buffer, since they can always pad their buffers with null transactions.) Next,  $P_i$  encrypts  $V_i$  using a  $(t_s, n)$ -threshold encryption scheme to give a ciphertext  $\mu_i$ . (As in HoneyBadger [26], transactions are encrypted to limit the adversary's ability to selectively censor certain transactions.) Each party signs its ciphertext and multicasts it, then waits for a fixed period of time

to receive signed ciphertexts from the other parties. Whenever a party receives a signed ciphertext during this time, they add it to a pre-block. Any party who forms an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block in this way within the time limit will input that pre-block to  $\Pi_{\text{BLA}}$ . The parties then wait for another fixed period of time to see whether  $\Pi_{\text{BLA}}$  outputs an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block. If a party receives an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block as output from  $\Pi_{\text{BLA}}$  within this time limit, it inputs that pre-block to the ACS protocol  $\Pi_{\text{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . Otherwise, if some party does not receive suitable output within the time limit, it inputs a pre-block containing the signed ciphertexts it received directly from other parties. (In this case, if a party has not received enough signed ciphertexts to form an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block, it waits for additional ciphertexts to arrive before inputting its pre-block to  $\Pi_{\text{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ .) At this point, each party waits for  $\Pi_{\text{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  to output a set of pre-blocks. The output of  $\Pi_{\text{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  is passed into a subroutine ConstructBlock that performs threshold decryption for each ciphertext in each pre-block in the set, and combines the resulting transactions into a final block.

Each party begins iteration k when its local clock reaches time  $T_k := \lambda \cdot (k-1)$ , where  $\lambda > 0$  is a spacing parameter. (The value of  $\lambda$  is irrelevant for the security proofs, but can be tuned to achieve better performance in practice; see further discussion in Section 5.4.) If the network is synchronous, parties' clocks are synchronized and so all parties begin each iteration at the same time. If the network is asynchronous, we do not have this guarantee. In either case, parties do not necessarily finish agreeing on block k prior to starting iteration k' > k, and so it is possible for parties to be participating in several iterations in parallel.

We implicitly assume that messages in each iteration, including messages corresponding to the various subprotocols, carry an identifier for the corresponding iteration so that parties know the iteration to which it belongs. Importantly, the executions of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  and  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  associated with a particular iteration are entirely separate from those of other iterations.

Theorem 3 (Completeness and consistency). Fix  $t_a, t_s$  with  $t_a \leq t_s$  and  $t_a+2\cdot t_s < n$ . Then  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ABC}}$  is  $t_a$ -complete/consistent when run in an asynchronous network, and  $t_s$ -complete/consistent when run in a synchronous network.

Proof. First, consider the case where at most  $t_s$  parties are corrupted and the network is synchronous. In the beginning of each iteration k, each honest party multicasts a set of transactions, and so every honest party can form an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block by time  $T_k + \Delta$ . Thus, every honest party starts running  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  at time  $T_k + \Delta$  using an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block as input. By  $t_s$ -security of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  in a synchronous network (note  $t_s < n/2$ ), with overwhelming probability every honest party outputs the same  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block  $\beta^*$  from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  by time  $T_k + \Delta + 5\kappa\Delta$ . Therefore, each honest party inputs  $\beta^*$  to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . By  $t_s$ -validity with termination of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ , every honest party obtains the same output  $B^*$  from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . So all honest parties eventually receive  $n-t_s > t_s$  valid decryption shares for each ciphertext in each pre-block of  $B^*$ , and they all output the same block.

 $\Pi_{\mathsf{ABC}}^{t_a,t_s}$ 

For each iteration  $k = 1, 2, \dots$  do:

- At time  $T_k = \lambda \cdot (k-1)$ : sample  $V \leftarrow \mathsf{ProposeTxs}(L/n, L)$  and encrypt Vusing pk to produce a ciphertext  $\mu$ . Multicast (input,  $\langle \mu \rangle_i$ ).
- Upon receiving a signed input (input,  $\langle \mu \rangle_i$ ) from  $P_i$  (for iteration k):
  - If this is the first input received for iteration k, create a new pre-

  - $\begin{array}{l} \operatorname{block}\,\beta_j^k := (\bot, \dots, \bot) \text{ and set } \operatorname{ready}_k := \operatorname{false}. \\ \bullet \ \operatorname{If}\, \beta_j^k[i] = \bot \colon \operatorname{set}\, \beta_j^k[i] := \langle \mu \rangle_j. \\ \bullet \ \operatorname{If}\, B_j^k \text{ is an } (n-t_s)\text{-quality pre-block and } \operatorname{ready}_k = \operatorname{false}, \text{ set} \end{array}$  $\mathsf{ready}_k := \mathsf{true}.$
- At time  $T_k + \Delta$ : if ready<sub>k</sub> = true, run  $\Pi_{BLA}$  using input  $\beta_j^k$ .
- At time  $T_k + \Delta + 5\kappa\Delta$ :
  - Terminate  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  (if it has not already terminated). If  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  had output an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block  $\beta^*$ , run  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  using input  $\beta^*$ . Else, wait until ready  $_k =$  true and then run  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  using input  $\beta^k_j$ .
  - When  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  terminates with output  $B^*$ , run ConstructBlock $(B^*)$ to produce a block B. Then set  $\mathsf{Blocks}[k] := B$  and delete from  $\mathsf{buf}_j$  any transactions that appear in  $\mathsf{Blocks}[k]$ .

ProposeTxs( $\ell, M$ ): choose a set V of  $\ell$  values  $\{\mathsf{tx}_1, \ldots, \mathsf{tx}_\ell\}$  uniformly (without replacement) from the first M values in  $\mathsf{buf}_i$ , then output V.  $ConstructBlock(B^*)$ : participate in threshold decryption for each unique ciphertext  $\mu$  in each pre-block  $\beta \in B^*$ . Once all decryptions have

**Fig. 3.** Our atomic broadcast protocol TARDIGRADE, from the perspective of party  $P_i$ .

finished, output the set B of all unique transactions obtained.

The case where the network is asynchronous and at most  $t_a$  parties are corrupted is similar. In each iteration, each honest party multicasts a set of transactions and so every honest party eventually receives input from at least  $n-t_a \ge n-t_s$  distinct parties and can form an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block. This means that every honest party eventually runs  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}}$  using an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block as input. By  $t_a$ -security of  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}}$ , all honest parties eventually receive the same output  $B^*$  from  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}}$ . So all honest parties will eventually receive  $n-t_a>t_s$  valid decryption shares for each ciphertext in each pre-block of  $B^*$ , and they all output the same block.

In what follows, we let Blocks[k] denote the block output by honest parties in iteration k. We now turn our attention to liveness. We begin by proving a bound on the number of honest parties who contribute transactions to a block. Formally, we say that an honest party  $P_i$  contributes transactions to a block B :=ConstructBlock $(B^*)$  if there is a pre-block  $\beta \in B^*$  such that  $B[i] \neq \bot$ . Using this lower bound, we show that any transaction that is at the front of most honest parties' buffers will eventually be output with overwhelming probability. Liveness follows by arguing that any transaction that is in the buffer of all honest parties will eventually move to the front of most honest parties' buffers.

**Lemma 9.** Fix  $t_a$ ,  $t_s$  with  $t_a \leq t_s$  and  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ , and assume at most  $t_a$  parties are corrupted and the network is asynchronous, or at most  $t_s$  parties are corrupted and the network is synchronous. Then in an execution of  $\Pi_{ABC}^{t_a,t_s}$ , for any block B output by an honest party, at least  $n - (t_s + t_a)$  honest parties contributed transactions to B.

*Proof.* First, consider the case where at most  $t_a$  parties are corrupted and the network is asynchronous. As shown in the proof of Theorem 3, every honest party executes  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  using an  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block as input. Thus, the input of every honest party to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  contains at least  $n-(t_s+t_a)$  ciphertexts created by honest parties. By  $t_a$ -set quality of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ , the output of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  contains some honest party's input and the lemma follows.

Next, consider the case where at most  $t_s$  parties are corrupted and the network is synchronous. As shown in the proof of Theorem 3, every honest party executes  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  using the same  $(n-t_s)$ -quality pre-block  $\beta$  as input. By  $t_s$ -validity with termination of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ , all honest parties output  $B^* = \{\beta\}$  from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . Because  $\beta$  is  $(n-t_s)$ -quality, it contains at least  $(n-2t_s)$  honest parties' ciphertexts; the lemma follows.

**Lemma 10.** Assume the conditions of Lemma 9. Consider an iteration k and a transaction tx such that, at the beginning of iteration k, all but at most  $t_s$  honest parties have tx among the first L transactions in their buffers. Then for any r > 0, tx is in  $\mathsf{Blocks}[k:k+r]$  except with probability at most  $(1-1/n)^{r+1}$ .

Proof. By Lemma 9, at least  $n-(t_s+t_a)$  honest parties contribute transactions to  $\mathsf{Blocks}[k]$ . So even if  $t_s$  parties are corrupted, at least one of the  $n-2t_s$  honest parties who have tx among the first L transactions in their buffers contributes transactions to  $\mathsf{Blocks}[k]$ . That party fails to include tx in the set V of transactions it chooses with probability  $\binom{L-1}{L/n}/\binom{L}{L/n}=1-\frac{1}{n}$ , and so tx is in  $\mathsf{Blocks}[k]$  except with probability at most  $1-\frac{1}{n}$ . (Note that this does not take into account the fact that the adversary may be able to choose which honest parties contribute transactions to B. However, because the parties encrypt their transactions, the adversary's choice has no effect on the calculation.) If tx does not appear in  $\mathsf{Blocks}[k]$ , then we can repeat the argument in all successive iterations  $k+1,\ldots,k+r$  until it does.

**Theorem 4 (Liveness).** Fix  $t_a \leq t_s$  with  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ . Then  $\Pi_{ABC}^{t_a,t_s}$  is  $t_a$ -live in an asynchronous network, and  $t_s$ -live in a synchronous network.

*Proof.* Suppose all honest parties have received a transaction tx. If, at any point afterward, tx is not in some honest party's buffer then tx must have already been included in a block output by that party (and that block will eventually be output by all honest parties). If all honest parties have tx in their buffers, then they each have a finite number of transactions ahead of tx. By completeness, all honest parties eventually output a block in each iteration. Additionally, by Lemma 9, at least  $n - (t_s + t_a)$  honest parties' inputs are incorporated into each block, and so in each iteration all but at most  $t_s$  honest parties each remove

at least L/n transactions from their buffers. It follows that eventually all but at most  $t_s$  honest parties will have tx among the first L transactions in their buffers. Once that occurs, Lemma 10 implies that tx is included in the next  $\kappa$  blocks except with probability negligible in  $\kappa$ .

The above shows that a transaction received by all honest parties is eventually output. This is the standard notion of liveness in asynchronous networks. When working in a synchronous model, on the other hand, it is common to analyze liveness in more concrete terms. We provide such an analysis in Appendix C.

#### 5.4 Efficiency and Choice of Parameters

The communication cost per iteration is dominated by the cost of the ACS and BLA subprotocols. Both ACS and BLA are run on pre-blocks, which have size  $L \cdot |\mathsf{tx}| + O(n \cdot \kappa)$ . Thus, each execution of BLA incurs cost  $O(n^3 \kappa^2 + n^2 L |\mathsf{tx}| \kappa)$ , and an execution of ACS incurs cost  $O(n^4 \kappa + n^3 L |\mathsf{tx}|)$ . The overall communication per block is therefore  $O(n^4 \kappa + n^3 \kappa^2 + n^3 L |\mathsf{tx}| + n^2 L |\mathsf{tx}| \kappa)$ .

At the beginning of every iteration, each honest party uniformly selects L/n transactions from among the first L transactions in its buffer. The following lemma shows that the expected number of *distinct* transactions they collectively choose is O(L):

**Lemma 11.** Assume the conditions of Lemma 9. In any iteration of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ABC}}^{t_a,t_s}$ , the expected number of distinct transactions contributed by honest parties to the block B output by the honest parties in that iteration is at least L/4.

Proof. The expectation is minimized when all honest parties have the same L transactions as the first L transactions in their buffers, so we assume this to be the case. As in Lemma 10, for some particular such transaction tx, the probability that some particular honest party fails to include tx in the set V of transactions it chooses is  $1-\frac{1}{n}$ . Since, by Lemma 9, at least  $n-(t_s+t_a)>n/3$  honest parties contribute transactions to B, the probability that none of those parties choose tx is at most  $\left(1-\frac{1}{n}\right)^{n/3} \leq e^{-1/3} < 3/4$ , and so tx is chosen by at least one of those parties with probability at least 1/4. (Once again, we do not take into account the fact that the adversary may be able to choose which honest parties contribute transactions because honest parties encrypt the transactions they choose.) The lemma follows by linearity of expectation.

Because each block contains O(L) transactions, the communication cost per transaction is  $O((n^4\kappa + n^3\kappa^2)/L + n^3|\mathsf{tx}| + n^2|\mathsf{tx}|\kappa)$ . So for  $L = \Theta(n\kappa)$ , the amortized communication cost per transaction is  $O(n^3|\mathsf{tx}| + n^2|\mathsf{tx}|\kappa)$ .

We remark that although each block contains at least L/4 distinct transactions in expectation, it is possible that some of those transactions are not new, i.e., they may have already been included in a previous block. This is possible because honest parties may sample their input in some iteration before having finished outputting blocks in all previous iterations. Thus, the actual communication cost per transaction may be higher than what we computed above. In

general, the amount of overlap between blocks will depend on the spacing parameter  $\lambda$  as well as the actual network conditions and the parties' local clocks. If  $\lambda$  is too small, some space in each block may be wasted on redundant transactions; however, setting  $\lambda$  to be too large could introduce unnecessary delays in a synchronous network. Understanding how different choices of  $\lambda$  affect our protocol's performance in various network conditions is an interesting challenge for future work.

#### 5.5 Optimality of Our Thresholds

We show that our protocol achieves the optimal tradeoff between the security thresholds. This result does not follow immediately from the impossibility result of Blum et al. [5] for network-agnostic Byzantine agreement because reductions from BA to atomic broadcast do not trivially translate to the network-agnostic setting; however, the main ideas of their proof readily extend to the case of atomic broadcast.

**Lemma 12.** Fix  $t_a, t_s, n$  with  $t_a + 2t_s \ge n$ . If an n-party atomic broadcast protocol is  $t_s$ -live in a synchronous network, then it cannot also be  $t_a$ -consistent in an asynchronous network.

*Proof.* Assume  $t_a + 2t_s = n$  and fix an ABC protocol  $\Pi$ . Partition the n parties into sets  $S_0, S_1, S_a$  where  $|S_0| = |S_1| = t_s$  and  $|S_a| = t_a$ . Consider the following experiment:

- Choose uniform  $m_0, m_1 \leftarrow \{0, 1\}^{\kappa}$ . At global time 0, parties in  $S_0$  begin running  $\Pi$  holding only  $m_0$  in their buffer, and parties in  $S_1$  begin running  $\Pi$  holding only  $m_1$  in their buffer.
- All communication between parties in  $S_0$  and parties in  $S_1$  is blocked. All other messages are delivered within time  $\Delta$ .
- Create virtual copies of each party in  $S_a$ , call them  $S_a^0$  and  $S_a^1$ . Parties in  $S_a^b$  begin running  $\Pi$  (at global time 0) with their buffers containing only  $m_b$ , and communicate only with each other and parties in  $S_b$ .

Compare this experiment to a hypothetical execution  $E_{\text{sync}}$  of  $\Pi$  in a synchronous network, in which parties in  $S_1$  are corrupted and simply abort, and the remaining parties are honest and initially hold only (uniformly chosen)  $m_0$  in their buffer. The views of parties  $S_0 \cup S_a^0$  in the experiment are distributed identically to the views of the honest parties in  $E_{\text{sync}}$ . Thus,  $t_s$ -liveness of  $\Pi$  implies that in the experiment, all parties in  $S_0$  include  $m_0$  in some block. Moreover, since parties in  $S_0$  never receive information about  $m_1$ , they include  $m_1$  in any block with negligible probability. By a symmetric argument, in the experiment, all parties in  $S_1$  include  $m_1$  in some block, and include  $m_0$  in any block with negligible probability.

Now, consider a hypothetical execution  $E_{\mathsf{async}}$  of  $\Pi$ , this time in an asynchronous network. In this execution, parties in  $S_0$  and  $S_1$  are honest while parties

in  $S_a$  are corrupted. The parties in  $S_0$  and  $S_1$  initially hold  $m_0, m_1 \leftarrow \{0, 1\}^{\kappa}$ , respectively. The corrupted parties interact with parties in  $S_0$  as if they are honest and have  $m_0$  in their buffer, and interact with parties in  $S_1$  as if they are honest and have  $m_1$  in their buffer. Meanwhile, all communication between parties in  $S_0$  and  $S_1$  is delayed indefinitely. The views of the honest parties in this execution are distributed identically to the views of  $S_0 \cup S_1$  in the above experiment, yet the conclusion of the preceding paragraph shows that  $t_a$ -consistency is violated with overwhelming probability.

#### 5.6 Adaptive Security

Our analysis of TARDIGRADE assumes a static adversary who must choose the set of corrupted parties prior to the start of the protocol. In fact, TARDIGRADE is not secure against an adaptive adversary, since an adaptive adversary can prevent  $\Pi_{\text{BLA}}$  from terminating within time  $5\kappa\Delta$  by corrupting the parties who are chosen as leaders. It is possible to modify TARDIGRADE to achieve adaptive security by suitably modifying  $\Pi_{\text{BLA}}$  in a relatively standard way: rather than choosing a leader who acts as the only proposer, each party will act as the proposer for one instance of the propose protocol, and a leader is then chosen retroactively after all instances terminate. Designing an adaptively secure network-agnostic atomic broadcast protocol with improved communication complexity is an interesting direction for future work. (Note that the committee-based approach in the following section is not adaptively secure.)

#### 6 Improving Complexity using Committees

In this section, we describe an extension to TARDIGRADE that achieves lower amortized communication complexity in the presence of a static adversary. The improved protocol, UPGRADE, achieves expected communication complexity per transaction that is linear in n; specifically, it has expected per-transaction communication complexity  $O(n\kappa |\mathbf{tx}| + \kappa^2 |\mathbf{tx}|)$ . This is made possible by delegating the most expensive steps of TARDIGRADE to a small committee.

To prove security for TARDIGRADE, we often used the fact that any sufficiently large subset of parties contained at least some minimum number of honest parties. We cannot assume this about the committees in UPGRADE, as the committee may be constant size, and in particular may be less than the number of corrupted parties. Instead, we prove that UPGRADE is secure in a setting with  $O(\epsilon)$  fewer corrupted parties, where  $\epsilon$  is a positive constant parameter of the protocol. More formally, fix  $t_s, t_a$  as before, and fix  $\hat{t}_s$  such that  $\hat{t}_s \leq (1-2\epsilon) \cdot t_s$  (for some  $\epsilon > 0$ ); with probability  $1 - e^{-O(\epsilon^2 \kappa)}$ , the improved ABC protocol is  $\hat{t}_s$ -secure in a synchronous network and  $t_a$ -secure in an asynchronous network. (Unless otherwise mentioned, all of the claims in this section hold with this probability.)

As in TARDIGRADE, we assume a trusted dealer who sets up threshold encryption and signature schemes. During the setup phase, the dealer also selects

a committee  $C \subset \{P_1, \ldots, P_n\}$  of size  $O(\kappa)$  and provides each committee member  $P_i \in C$  with a special credential  $\pi_i$  that proves  $P_i$  is on the committee. (For example,  $\pi_i$  might be a signature  $\langle i \rangle_D$  on the index i that can be checked against the dealer's public key.) We also assume that there is a collision-resistant hash function  $H: \{0,1\}^* \to \{0,1\}^\kappa$  known to all the parties.

#### 6.1 Committee-Based Reliable Broadcast

We briefly describe a committee-based reliable broadcast protocol that will prove useful in our improved ACS construction. The basis for the committee-based protocol is a plain reliable broadcast protocol Bcast that is  $t_s$ -valid and  $t_a$ -consistent with communication complexity  $O(n^2|v|)$  a hash of the sender's input. (An example construction can be found in Appendix A.1.) The sender sends their input v individually to each of the committee members. If the hash output by the reliable broadcast matches this value, the committee members propagate v to all parties.

$$\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}^+}^{t_a,t_s}(v)$$

Throughout, let  $t_{\kappa} := \lfloor \frac{(1-\epsilon) \cdot \kappa \cdot t_s}{n} \rfloor$ .

- If  $P_i = P^*$ : send input v to each  $P_j \in C$ , and input h = H(v) to  $\Pi_{BB}^{t_s}$ .
- Run  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}}^{t_s}$ .
- If  $P_i \in C$  and  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}}^{t_s}$  has output h': upon receiving a message v' from  $P^*$  or  $(v',h',\pi_j)$  from some  $P_j \in C$ , if H(v') = h', multicast  $(v',h',\pi_i)$ .
- Upon receiving  $(v'', H(v''), \pi_j)$  from at least  $t_{\kappa} + 1$  distinct  $P_j \in C$  (even if  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}}^{t_s}$  has not yet output a value), output v'' and terminate.

**Fig. 4.** A reliable broadcast protocol for sender  $P^*$  and committee C, from the perspective of party  $P_i$ .

The security analysis uses standard techniques for broadcast; for completeness, proofs can be found in Appendix D.2.

Communication complexity of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}^+}^{t_a,t_s}$ . Running the inner broadcast on hashes of size  $O(\kappa)$  has communication complexity  $O(n^2\kappa)$ , while sending the value, hash, and credential to all parties costs  $O(n\kappa(|m|+\kappa))$ . Thus, sending a message of size |m| using the 'wrapped' reliable broadcast costs  $O(n^2\kappa + n|m|\kappa + n\kappa^2)$ , while sending it using the inner reliable broadcast alone costs  $O(n^2|m|)$ .

#### 6.2 Committee-Based ACS

We can construct a committee-based ACS protocol (Figure 5) by making two minor changes to the basic ACS protocol introduced in Section 4. First, the inner (non-terminating) ACS protocol is modified to use the committee-based broadcast described in Section 6.1. Because broadcast is used opaquely by the

inner ACS protocol, this change does not require any special modifications, and the claims previously proven about the inner ACS protocol still hold. Second, the termination wrapper is modified so that only the members of the committee send the output in its entirety. Upon outputting a set S from the inner (nonterminating) ACS subprotocol, each committee member  $P_i$  multicasts S and  $\langle \mathsf{commit}, H(S) \rangle_i$ , along with the credential they received from the dealer. The other parties will echo signature shares and hashes, but not the set S itself.

$$\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^+}^{t_a,t_s}(v_j)$$

Throughout, let  $t_{\kappa} := \lfloor \frac{(1-\epsilon) \cdot \kappa \cdot t_s}{n} \rfloor$ .

- Input  $v_j$  to  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}}$ . If  $P_j \in C$ : upon receiving output  $S_j$  from  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}}$ , compute  $h := H(S_j)$ and multicast  $(S_j, \langle \mathsf{commit}, h \rangle_j, \pi_j)$ .
- Upon receiving at least  $t_{\kappa} + 1$  valid signature shares  $\sigma_i = \langle \mathsf{commit}, h \rangle_i$ from distinct parties in C on the same value h, form a combined signature  $\sigma$  for h and multicast  $(\sigma, h)$ .
- Upon receiving a valid combined signature  $\sigma$  for some h, multicast  $\sigma$ .
- Upon holding  $S, \sigma$  such that  $\sigma$  is a combined signature for h from parties in C and S is a set such that H(S) = h, output S and terminate.

Fig. 5. A terminating ACS protocol with predetermined committee C, shown from the perspective of party  $P_j$  with input  $v_j$ .

The proof that  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^+}^{t_a,t_s}(v)$  is  $t_a$ -secure and has  $\hat{t}_s$ -validity with termination is very similar to the security proof for the basic ACS protocol, so we omit it.

Communication complexity of  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}^+}$ . As before, let |m| represent the size of parties' inputs. When instantiated using the committee-based broadcast protocol from Section 6.1, the communication complexity of the inner ACS protocol is  $O(n^3\kappa + n^2|m|\kappa + n^2\kappa^2)$ . Moving on to the rest of the protocol, we see that the committee members multicast their output, a signature share, and the credential they received from the dealer. (Note that the signature share is for a hash of the output rather than the entire output.) Since the signature share, credential, and hash are each of size  $O(\kappa)$ , this step contributes  $O(n \cdot \kappa(n \cdot |m| + \kappa)) =$  $O(n^2\kappa \cdot |m| + n\kappa^2)$ . Next, all parties multicast a combined signature of size  $O(\kappa)$ , for a total cost of  $O(n^2\kappa)$ . All together, the total cost of the improved ACS protocol is  $O(n^3\kappa + n^2|m|\kappa + n^2\kappa^2)$ .

#### An ABC Protocol with Improved Communication Complexity 6.3

Here, we give an overview of UPGRADE. Because the high-level techniques are similar to TARDIGRADE, we will highlight the key differences between the two protocols and defer further details to the appendix.

The first (and simplest) difference is that wherever tardigrade would run an instance of the plain ACS protocol, upgrade runs the improved version described in Section 6.2. The second difference concerns how parties choose and share their inputs, and how those inputs are combined to form a final block. At the beginning of the protocol, when parties choose a set of transactions to input, they will now also choose a second, larger input set, which is encrypted and sent only to the committee members. The committee members form the large ciphertexts into a separate pre-block, which is used to construct the final block in case ACS outputs only one small pre-block is output. Sending a large pre-block all-to-all is costly, so the committee members also form a placeholder called a block pointer. A block pointer contains a hash of a large pre-block and a combined signature on that hash by members of the committee. In most steps, the block pointer can be sent in place of the large pre-block. Although forming and sharing the block pointer adds some extra communication, we are able to significantly increase the expected number of distinct transactions.

### References

- 1. I. Abraham, S. Devadas, D. Dolev, K. Nayak, and L. Ren. Efficient synchronous Byzantine consensus, 2017. Available at https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/307.
- 2. I. Abraham, D. Malkhi, K. Nayak, L. Ren, and M. Yin. Sync HotStuff: Simple and practical synchronous state machine replication. In 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 106–118. IEEE, 2020.
- 3. Z. Beerliov´a-Trub´ıniov´a, M. Hirt, and J. B. Nielsen. On the theoretical gap between synchronous and asynchronous MPC protocols. In 29th Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC), pages 211–218. ACM Press, 2010.
- 4. M. Ben-Or, B. Kelmer, and T. Rabin. Asynchronous secure computations with optimal resilience (extended abstract). In 13th Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC), pages 183–192. ACM Press, Aug. 1994.
- 5. E. Blum, J. Katz, and J. Loss. Synchronous consensus with optimal asynchronous fallback guarantees. In 17th Theory of Cryptography Conference—TCC 2019, Part I, volume 11891 of LNCS, pages 131–150. Springer, 2019.
- 6. E. Blum, C.-D. L. Zhang, and J. Loss. Always have a backup plan: Fully secure synchronous MPC with asynchronous fallback. In Advances in Cryptology— Crypto 2020, Part II, volume 12171 of LNCS, pages 707–731. Springer, 2020.
- 7. G. Bracha. An asynchronou [(n-1)/3]-resilient consensus protocol. In 3rd Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC), pages 154–162. ACM Press, Aug. 1984.
- 8. M. Castro and B. Liskov. Practical Byzantine fault tolerance. In Proceedings of the Third Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, OSDI '99, pages 173–186. USENIX Association, 1999.
- 9. M. Correia, N. Neves, and P. Ver´ıssimo. From consensus to atomic broadcast: Time-free Byzantine-resistant protocols without signatures. The Computer Journal, 49(1):82–96, 2006.
- 10. F. Cristian, H. Aghili, R. Strong, and D. Dolev. Atomic broadcast: From simple message diffusion to Byzantine agreement. Information and Computation, 118(1):158–179, 1995.

- 11. I. Damg˚ard, M. Geisler, M. Krøigaard, and J. B. Nielsen. Asynchronous multiparty computation: Theory and implementation. In 12th Intl. Conference on Theory and Practice of Public Key Cryptography—PKC 2009, volume 5443 of LNCS, pages 160–179. Springer, 2009.
- 12. S. Duan, M. K. Reiter, and H. Zhang. BEAT: Asynchronous BFT made practical. In 25th ACM Conf. on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), pages 2028–2041. ACM Press, 2018.
- 13. C. Dwork, N. Lynch, and L. Stockmeyer. Consensus in the presence of partial synchrony. J. ACM, 35(2):288–323, Apr. 1988.
- 14. M. Fitzi and J. B. Nielsen. On the number of synchronous rounds sufficient for authenticated Byzantine agreement. In I. Keidar, editor, Distributed Computing, pages 449–463. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009.
- 15. J. A. Garay, A. Kiayias, and N. Leonardos. The bitcoin backbone protocol: Analysis and applications. In Advances in Cryptology—Eurocrypt 2015, Part II, volume 9057 of LNCS, pages 281–310. Springer, 2015.
- 16. B. Guo, Z. Lu, Q. Tang, J. Xu, and Z. Zhang. Dumbo: Faster asynchronous BFT protocols. In 27th ACM Conf. on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), pages 803–818. ACM Press, 2020.
- 17. Y. Guo, R. Pass, and E. Shi. Synchronous, with a chance of partition tolerance. In Advances in Cryptology—Crypto 2019, Part I, volume 11692 of LNCS, pages 499–529. Springer, 2019.
- 18. J. Katz and C.-Y. Koo. On expected constant-round protocols for Byzantine agreement. JCSS, 75(2):91–112, 2009.
- 19. R. Kotla, L. Alvisi, M. Dahlin, A. Clement, and E. Wong. Zyzzyva: Speculative Byzantine fault tolerance. In Proceedings of Twenty-First ACM SIGOPS Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, SOSP '07, pages 45–58. ACM, 2007.
- 20. K. Kursawe. Optimistic Byzantine agreement. In Proceedings of the 21st IEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems, SRDS '02, page 262. IEEE Computer Society, 2002.
- 21. L. Lamport, R. E. Shostak, and M. C. Pease. The Byzantine generals problem. ACM Trans. Programming Language Systems, 4(3):382–401, 1982.
- 22. S. Liu, P. Viotti, C. Cachin, V. Quema, and M. Vukolic. XFT: Practical fault tolerance beyond crashes. In 12th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 16), pages 485–500, Savannah, GA, Nov. 2016. USENIX Association.
- 23. C.-D. Liu-Zhang, J. Loss, U. Maurer, T. Moran, and D. Tschudi. MPC with synchronous security and asynchronous responsiveness. LNCS, pages 92–119. Springer, 2020.
- 24. J. Loss and T. Moran. Combining asynchronous and synchronous byzantine agreement: The best of both worlds. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/235, 2018. https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/235.
- 25. D. Malkhi, K. Nayak, and L. Ren. Flexible byzantine fault tolerance. In 26th ACM Conf. on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), pages 1041–1053. ACM Press, 2019.
- 26. A. Miller, Y. Xia, K. Croman, E. Shi, and D. Song. The honey badger of BFT protocols. In 23rd ACM Conf. on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), pages 31–42. ACM Press, 2016.
- 27. A. Momose and L. Ren. Multi-threshold Byzantine fault tolerance. In 28th Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), 2021. Available at https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/307.

- 28. A. Most´efaoui, M. Hamouma, and M. Raynal. Signature-free asynchronous byzantine consensus with t < n/3 and O(n 2 ) messages. pages 2–9. ACM Press, 2014.
- 29. R. Pass, L. Seeman, and a. shelat. Analysis of the blockchain protocol in asynchronous networks. In Advances in Cryptology—Eurocrypt 2017, Part II, volume 10211 of LNCS, pages 643–673. Springer, 2017.
- 30. R. Pass and E. Shi. Hybrid consensus: Efficient consensus in the permissionless model. In 31st International Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC 2017). Schloss Dagstuhl-Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Informatik, 2017.
- 31. R. Pass and E. Shi. Thunderella: Blockchains with optimistic instant confirmation. In Advances in Cryptology—Eurocrypt 2018, Part II, volume 10821 of LNCS, pages 3–33. Springer, 2018.
- 32. A. Patra and D. Ravi. On the power of hybrid networks in multi-party computation. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 64(6):4207–4227, 2018.
- 33. M. Pease, R. E. Shostak, and L. Lamport. Reaching agreement in the presence of faults. J. ACM, 27(2):228–234, 1980.

### A Useful Sub-Protocols

#### A.1 Reliable Broadcast with Higher Validity Threshold

In this section, we present a concrete protocol (cf. Protocol 6) that can be used to instantiate the broadcast subprotocol needed for our ACS construction. Our protocol is based on Bracha's (asynchronous) reliable broadcast protocol [7], but allows for a more general tradeoff between consistency and validity.

$$\Pi^{t_s}_{\mathsf{BB}}(v^*)$$

- · Set ready = false.
- · If P<sup>i</sup> = P ∗ : multicast v ∗ .
- · Upon receiving initial value v ∗ from P ∗ , multicast (echo, v<sup>∗</sup> ).
- · Upon receiving (echo, v<sup>∗</sup> ) messages on the same value v ∗ from n − t<sup>s</sup> distinct parties: if ready = false, set ready = true and multicast (ready, v<sup>∗</sup> ).
- · Upon receiving (ready, v<sup>∗</sup> ) messages on the same value v ∗ from t<sup>s</sup> + 1 distinct parties: if ready = false, set readied = true and multicast (ready, v<sup>∗</sup> ).
- · Upon receiving (ready, v<sup>∗</sup> ) messages on the same value v ∗ from n − t<sup>s</sup> distinct parties: output v ∗ and terminate.

Fig. 6. A reliable broadcast protocol with sender P ∗ , from the perspective of party Pi.

#### Lemma 13. If t<sup>s</sup> < n/2 then Π ts BB is ts-valid.

Proof. Assume there are at most t<sup>s</sup> corrupted parties, and the sender is honest. All honest parties receive the same value v ∗ from the sender, and consequently send (echo,  $v^*$ ) to all other parties. Since there are at least  $n-t_s$  honest parties, all honest parties receive (echo,  $v^*$ ) from at least  $n-t_s$  different parties, and as a result send (ready,  $v^*$ ) to all other parties. By the same argument, all honest parties receive (ready,  $v^*$ ) from at least  $n-t_s$  parties, and so can output  $v^*$  (and terminate). Fix any  $v \neq v^*$ ; to complete the proof, we argue that no honest party will output v. Note first that no honest party will send (echo, v). Thus, any honest party receives (echo, v) from at most  $t_s$  other parties. Since  $t_s < n-t_s$ , no honest party will ever send (ready, v). By the same argument, this shows that any honest party receives (ready, v) from at most v0 other parties, and hence will not output v1.

**Lemma 14.** Fix  $t_a \leq t_s$  with  $t_a + 2 \cdot t_s < n$ . Then  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}}^{t_s}$  is  $t_a$ -consistent.

Proof. Suppose at most  $t_a$  parties are corrupted, and that an honest party  $P_i$  outputs v. Then  $P_i$  must have received (ready, v) from at least  $n-t_s$  distinct parties, at least  $n-t_s-t_a \geq t_s+1$  of whom are honest. Thus, all honest parties receive (ready, v) from at least  $t_s+1$  distinct parties, and so all honest parties send (ready, v) to everyone. It follows that all honest parties receive (ready, v) from at least  $n-t_a \geq n-t_s$  parties, and so can output v as well. To complete the proof, we argue that an honest party cannot output  $v' \neq v$ . We argued above that every honest party sends (ready, v) to everyone. Since  $t_a < t_s+1$ , each honest party must have sent (ready, v) in response to receiving (echo, v) from at least  $v-t_s$  distinct parties. If some honest party outputs v' then, arguing similarly, every honest party must have received (echo, v') from at least  $v-t_s$  distinct parties. But this is a contradiction, since an honest party sends only a single echo message but  $v-t_s = v$ .

#### A.2 A Block-Agreement Protocol

In this section, we show how to construct a block-agreement protocol that can be used in our atomic broadcast protocol in Section 5. Throughout this section, we assume the network is synchronous and at most t < n/2 parties are corrupted.

Recall from Definition 6 that block agreement is used to agree on pre-blocks, which are vectors of length n such that the  $i^{th}$  entry is either a valid signed message by  $P_i$  or simply  $\bot$ . A k-quality pre-block is a pre-block with at least k non- $\bot$  entries. Honest parties are assumed to input (n-t)-quality pre-blocks, and ignore any pre-blocks with quality less than n-t.

The structure of our block agreement protocol is inspired by the *synod protocol* of Abraham et al. [1]. We begin by defining a subprotocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$  (see Figure 7) in which a designated party  $P^*$  serves as a *proposer*. A tuple  $(r, \beta, C)$  is called a *round r vote* for a pre-block  $\beta$  if either:

- -r=0 and  $C=\emptyset$ , or
- -r > 0 and C is a set of at least t+1 signed messages  $\langle \mathsf{commit}, r_i, \beta \rangle_i$  from distinct parties such that  $r_i \geq r$ .

When the exact value of r is unimportant, we simply refer to the tuple as a *vote*.

At the start of the propose protocol, the proposer waits to receive a set V of signed votes on valid pre-blocks such that  $|V| \geq t + 1$ . Then, the proposer determines a safe pre-block to propose from among these votes by finding the vote  $(r^*, \beta^*, C^*)$  in V such that  $r^*$  is greater than or equal to the round number of all other votes in V (breaking ties by lowest party index). The proposer then multicasts a proposal message  $\langle propose, (r^*, \beta^*, C^*), V \rangle_*$ . An honest party who receives a proposal will consider it valid if all of the following hold:

- the signatures on the propose message and on each vote in V are valid,
- $-\beta^*$  is a valid pre-block,
- there is a round  $r^*$  vote for  $\beta^*$  in V,
- -|V| contains at least t+1 votes,
- $-r^*$  is greater than or equal to the round number of all votes in V.

If any of these conditions are not met, the proposal is not considered valid.

$$\Pi^{P^*}_{\mathsf{Propose}}(r,\beta,C)$$

- 1. (All parties) At time 0: send  $vote_i := \langle vote, (r, \beta, C) \rangle_i$  to  $P^*$ .
- 2. (Only proposer) Until time  $\Delta$ : Set  $V = \emptyset$ . Upon receiving a vote vote<sub>j</sub> from party  $P_j$  on a valid pre-block: if this is the first such message received from  $P_j$  during this round, add vote<sub>j</sub> to V.
- 3. (Only proposer) At time  $\Delta$ , if  $|V| \geq t$ , find the vote  $(r^*, \beta^*, C^*)$  in V such that  $r^*$  is greater than or equal to the round number of all votes in V (breaking ties by lowest party index), and multicast  $\langle \mathsf{propose}, (r^*, \beta^*, C^*), V \rangle_*$ .
- 4. (All parties) At time  $2\Delta$ , if a valid  $m = \langle \text{propose}, (r^*, \beta^*, C^*), V \rangle_*$  has been received from  $P^*$ , multicast m. Otherwise, output  $\bot$ .
- 5. (All parties) At time  $3\Delta$ : let  $m_j$  denote the valid proposal forwarded by  $P_j$  (if any). If there exists  $m_j$  such that  $m_j \neq m$ , output  $\perp$ . Otherwise, output the pre-block  $\beta^*$  carried by the proposal m.

**Fig. 7.** A protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$  parameterized by threshold t and designated proposer  $P^*$ , from the perspective of party  $P_i$ .

We first show that any two honest parties who generate output in this protocol agree on their output.

**Lemma 15.** If honest parties  $P_i$  and  $P_j$  output  $\beta_i, \beta_j \neq \perp$ , respectively, in an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$ , then  $\beta_i = \beta_j$ .

*Proof.* If  $P_i$  outputs  $\beta_i \neq \perp$ , then  $P_i$  must have received a valid proposal message for  $\beta_i$  by time  $2\Delta$ . That message is forwarded by  $P_i$  to  $P_j$ , and hence  $P_j$  either outputs  $\perp$  (if the proposals do not match) or the same value  $\beta_i$ .

Next, we show that if each honest party  $P_i$  inputs a vote  $(r_i, \beta, C_i)$  on the same pre-block  $\beta$ , and no honest party ever receives a vote  $(r', \beta', C')$  such that

 $r' \ge \min_i \{r_i\}$  and  $\beta' \ne \beta$ , then any honest party who outputs a value other than  $\bot$  outputs  $\beta$ .

**Lemma 16.** If the input of each honest party  $P_i$  to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$  is a round  $r_i$ -vote on the same valid pre-block  $\beta$ , and if no honest party ever receives a round r'-vote on  $\beta' \neq \beta$  with  $r' \geq \min_i \{r_i\}$ , then every honest party outputs either  $\beta$  or  $\bot$ .

*Proof.* Consider an honest party P who outputs  $\beta \neq \perp$ . That party must have received a valid proposal message from  $P^*$ , which in turn must contain a vote  $(r_i, \beta, C_i)$  from at least one honest party  $P_i$ . Under the assumptions of the lemma, any other vote  $(r', \beta', C')$  contained in the proposal message with  $r' \geq r_i$  has  $\beta' = \beta$ . It follows that P outputs  $\beta$ .

Finally, we show that when  $P^*$  is honest then all honest parties do indeed generate output.

**Lemma 17.** If each honest party  $P_i$  inputs a vote  $(r_i, \beta_i, C_i)$  on some valid preblock  $\beta_i$  to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$ , and  $P^*$  is honest, then there is some (n-t)-quality pre-block  $\beta \neq \perp$  such that every honest party outputs  $\beta$ .

*Proof.*  $P^*$  will receive at least t+1 votes from honest parties, and so sends a valid proposal message on some (n-t)-quality pre-block  $\beta$  to all honest parties. (It is possible for the set V to include votes from dishonest parties, but these votes must be on (n-t)-quality pre-blocks.) Since  $P^*$  is honest, and the adversary cannot forge signatures on other proposals behalf of  $P^*$ , this is the only valid proposal message the honest parties will receive. Therefore, all honest parties output  $\beta \neq \bot$ .

We now present a protocol  $\Pi_{\sf GC}^r$  (Figure 8) that uses  $\Pi_{\sf Propose}^{P^*}$  to achieve a form of graded consensus on pre-blocks. As in the protocol of Abraham et al. [1], we rely on an atomic leader-election mechanism Leader with the following properties: On receiving input r from a majority of parties, Leader chooses a uniform leader  $P^* \in \{1,\ldots,n\}$  and sends  $(r,P^*)$  to all parties. This ensures that if less than half of all parties are corrupted, then at least one honest party must call Leader with input r before the adversary can learn the identity of the leader. A leader-election mechanism tolerating any t < n/2 faults can be realized (in the synchronous model with a PKI) based on general assumptions [18]; it can also be realized more efficiently using a threshold unique signature scheme.

Below, we refer to a message  $\langle \mathsf{commit}, r, \beta \rangle_i$  as a valid commit message from  $P_i$  on a pre-block  $\beta$  if the quality of  $\beta$  is at least (n-t) and the associated signature is valid. Commit messages are used to construct notify messages (notify,  $r, \beta, C$ ). A notify message (notify,  $r, \beta, C$ ) is valid if  $\beta$  is an (n-t)-quality pre-block and C is a set of valid commit messages such that (1) all commit messages carry the same pre-block  $\beta$ , (2) C contains messages from at least t+1 distinct parties, and (3) for each  $c_i = \langle \mathsf{commit}, r_i, \beta \rangle_i \in C$  the round number  $r_i$  is greater than or equal to r.

We refer to the value g in a tuple  $(\beta, C, g)$  as the grade.

#### $\Pi_{\mathsf{GC}}^r$

- At time 0: Set  $C' = \emptyset$ . Call Leader(r) and let  $(r, P^*)$  denote the output. Run  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$  using input  $(r, \beta, C)$ .
- At time  $3\Delta$ : Let  $\beta^*$  denote the output of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$ . If  $\beta^* \neq \bot$ , multicast  $\langle \mathsf{commit}, r, \beta^* \rangle_i$ . Until time  $4\Delta$ , upon receiving a valid commit message  $c_j = \langle \mathsf{commit}, r_j, \beta_j \rangle_j$  from  $P_j$ , if this is the first such message received from  $P_j$ , add  $c_j$  to C'.
- At time  $4\Delta$ : If there is a subset  $C'' \subseteq C'$  of commit messages on the same pre-block  $\beta'$  such that (a)  $|C''| \ge t + 1$ , and (b) for each  $c_j = \langle \mathsf{commit}, r_j, \beta' \rangle_j \in C'', r_j \ge r$ , then multicast (notify,  $r, \beta', C''$ ), output  $(\beta', C'', 2)$ , and terminate.
- At time  $5\Delta$ : If a valid notify message (notify,  $r, \beta^*, C^*$ ) has been received, output  $(\beta^*, C^*, 1)$  and terminate (if there is more than one such message, choose arbitrarily). Otherwise, output  $(\bot, \bot, 0)$  and terminate.

**Fig. 8.** A graded consensus protocol from the perspective of party  $P_i$  with input  $(r, \beta, C)$ .

**Lemma 18.** Assume that the input of each honest party  $P_i$  to  $\Pi^r_{\mathsf{GC}}$  is a vote on the same (n-t)-quality pre-block  $\beta$ . If no honest party ever receives a round r' vote on  $\beta' \neq \beta$  such that r' is greater than or equal to the smallest round number carried by an honest parties' input in step 1 of  $\Pi^r_{\mathsf{GC}}$ , then (1) no honest party sends a commit message on  $\beta' \neq \beta$  and (2) any honest party who outputs a nonzero grade outputs  $\beta$ .

*Proof.* By Lemma 16, every honest party outputs either  $\beta$  or  $\bot$  in every execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}$  in step 1. It follows that no honest party  $P_i$  sends a commit message on  $\beta' \neq \beta$ , proving the first part of the lemma. Since at most t parties are corrupted, this means an honest party will receive fewer than t+1 valid commit messages on anything other than  $\beta$ ; it follows that if an honest party outputs grade g=2 then that party outputs  $(\beta, C, 2)$ .

Arguing similarly, no honest party will receive a valid notify message on anything other than  $\beta$ . Hence each honest party that outputs grade 1 outputs  $(\beta, C', 1)$ .

**Lemma 19.** If an honest party outputs  $(\beta, C, g)$  such that  $g \neq 0$  in an execution of  $\Pi_{GC}^r$ , then no honest party sends a commit message on  $\beta' \neq \beta$ .

*Proof.* Say an honest party outputs  $(\beta, C, g)$  where g is nonzero. That party must have received a valid notify message on  $\beta$ . Therefore, C must contain signatures from at least t+1 distinct parties. It follows that at least one honest party P must have sent a commit message on  $\beta$ . This means that P must have received  $\beta$  as its output from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$ . By Lemma 15, this means the pre-block output by any other honest party from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$  is either  $\beta$  or  $\bot$ .

**Lemma 20.** If some honest party outputs  $(\beta, C, g)$  with grade g = 2 in an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{GC}}^r$ , then each honest party  $P_i$  outputs  $(\beta_i, C_i, g_i)$  such that  $\beta_i = \beta$  and g > 0.

*Proof.* Say an honest party P outputs  $(\beta, C, g)$  such that g = 2. By Lemma 19, this means no honest party sent a commit message on  $\beta' \neq \beta$ ; it is thus impossible for any honest party to output  $\beta' \neq \beta$  with a nonzero grade. Since P sends a valid notify message on  $\beta$  to all honest parties before terminating, every honest party will output  $\beta$  with a nonzero grade.

**Lemma 21.** During an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{GC}}^r$ , the event that every honest party outputs the same (n-t)-quality pre-block  $\beta$  with a grade of 2 occurs with probability at least 1/2.

*Proof.* The leader  $P^*$  is honest with probability at least  $\frac{n-t}{n} > 1/2$ . If the leader is honest, agreement on an (n-t)-quality pre-block  $\beta$  follows from Lemma 20. Therefore, it remains to show that whenever the leader is honest, every honest party outputs grade 2.

Assume  $P^*$  is honest. Lemma 17 implies that every honest party receives the same pre-block  $\beta \neq \perp$  as output from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{Propose}}^{P^*}$ . Thus, every honest party sends a valid commit message on  $\beta$  by time  $3\Delta$ . Consequently, each honest party  $P_j$  receives n-t commit messages on the same pre-block  $\beta$  before time  $4\Delta$ . This causes them to output with grade g=2.

In Figure 9 we describe the complete block-agreement protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$ . Note that parties do not terminate upon generating output; instead, parties terminate after participating in all  $\kappa$  rounds of the protocol.

```
\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}(\beta)
Set (\beta', C') = (\beta, \emptyset) and set r = 0.
While r < \kappa:

• At time 5r \cdot \Delta: run \Pi^r_{\mathsf{GC}} using input (r, \beta', C').

• At time 5(r+1) \cdot \Delta: let (\beta^*, C^*, g) denote the output of \Pi^r_{\mathsf{GC}}. If g > 0, set (\beta', C') = (\beta^*, C^*). Additionally, if g = 2, output \beta'. Set r = r + 1.
```

**Fig. 9.** A block-agreement protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  with security parameter  $\kappa$ , from the perspective of party  $P_i$ .

**Lemma 22.** If t < n/2, then  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  is t-secure.

*Proof.* Assume at most t parties are corrupted during an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$ . Termination follows trivially from the protocol description, as parties terminate after  $\kappa$  fixed-length rounds.

Let  $r^*$  be the first round in which some honest party outputs a pre-block  $\beta$ . We first show that in every subsequent round, the following hold: (1) every honest party  $P_i$  uses as its input in step 1 a round  $r_i$  vote on  $\beta$ ; and (2) the adversary cannot construct a round r' vote on  $\beta' \neq \beta$  for any  $r' \geq \min_i \{r_i\}$ .

Consider some honest party  $P_i$  who outputs a pre-block  $\beta$  in round  $r^*$ .  $P_i$  must have received a valid notify message for  $\beta$  during the graded consensus subprotocol for that round. By Lemma 20, this means every honest party received a valid notify message for  $\beta$  in the same execution of  $\Pi^r_{\mathsf{GC}}$ , and so claim (1) holds in iteration  $r^*+1$ . Moreover, Lemma 19 implies that no honest party sent a commit message on  $\beta'\neq\beta$  in the execution of  $\Pi^r_{\mathsf{GC}}$ , and so claim (2) also holds in iteration  $r^*+1$ . Lemma 18 implies, inductively, that the two claims will continue to hold in every subsequent iteration. Thus, any other honest party  $P_j$  who generates output in  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  also outputs  $\beta$ , regardless of whether they generate output in round  $r^*$  or a later round. This proves t-consistency.

Lemma 21 shows that in each iteration of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$ , with probability at least 1/2 there is an (n-t)-quality pre-block  $\beta$  such that all honest parties output  $\beta$  in that iteration. Thus, after  $\kappa$  iterations all honest parties have generated (n-t)-quality output except with negligible probability. This proves t-validity.

Communication complexity of block agreement. During the propose subprotocol, parties send and receive votes. Recall that a vote is a tuple  $(r, \beta, C)$ , where r is a constant,  $\beta$  is an input to the BLA protocol, and C is a set of O(n)signatures  $\sigma_i$  on (commit,  $r_i$ ,  $\beta$ ). Because  $r_i$  is not necessarily equal to  $r_j$  for all  $\sigma_i$ ,  $\sigma_j$  in C, the signatures cannot be combined into a single threshold signature. Thus, a vote is size  $O(n\kappa + |m|)$ , where |m| denotes the size of parties' inputs. The most expensive step of the propose subprotocol requires all parties to send a vote to all other parties, resulting in an overall communication complexity for the propose subprotocol of  $O(n^2(n\kappa + |m|)) = O(n^3\kappa + n^2|m|)$ .

In the graded consensus subprotocol, the parties participate in one run of the propose subprotocol and send a constant number of all-to-all messages of size  $O(n\kappa + |m|)$ . Since both of these steps cost  $O(n^3\kappa + n^2|m|)$ , the overall communication complexity for one instance of graded consensus is the same as that of the propose protocol.

The BLA protocol runs  $\kappa$  iterations of the graded consensus protocol, for a total communication cost of  $O(\kappa \cdot (n^3 \kappa + n^2 |m|)) = O(n^3 \kappa^2 + n^2 \kappa \cdot |m|)$ .

#### B Proof of Lemma 12

Assume  $t_a + 2t_s = n$  and fix an ABC protocol  $\Pi$ . Partition the n parties into sets  $S_0, S_1, S_a$  where  $|S_0| = |S_1| = t_s$  and  $|S_a| = t_a$ . Consider the following experiment:

- Choose uniform  $m_0, m_1 \leftarrow \{0, 1\}^{\kappa}$ . At global time 0, parties in  $S_0$  begin running  $\Pi$  holding only  $m_0$  in their buffer, and parties in  $S_1$  begin running  $\Pi$  holding only  $m_1$  in their buffer.
- All communication between parties in  $S_0$  and parties in  $S_1$  is blocked. All other messages are delivered within time  $\Delta$ .
- Create virtual copies of each party in  $S_a$ , call them  $S_a^0$  and  $S_a^1$ . Parties in  $S_a^b$  begin running  $\Pi$  (at global time 0) with their buffers containing only  $m_b$ , and communicate only with each other and parties in  $S_b$ .

Compare this experiment to a hypothetical execution  $E_{\text{sync}}$  of  $\Pi$  in a synchronous network, in which parties in  $S_1$  are corrupted and simply abort, and the remaining parties are honest and initially hold only (uniformly chosen)  $m_0$  in their buffer. The views of parties  $S_0 \cup S_a^0$  in the experiment are distributed identically to the views of the honest parties in  $E_{\text{sync}}$ . Thus,  $t_s$ -liveness of  $\Pi$  implies that in the experiment, all parties in  $S_0$  include  $m_0$  in some block. Moreover, since parties in  $S_0$  never receive information about  $m_1$ , they include  $m_1$  in any block with negligible probability. By a symmetric argument, in the experiment, all parties in  $S_1$  include  $m_1$  in some block, and include  $m_0$  in any block with negligible probability.

Now, consider a hypothetical execution  $E_{\mathsf{async}}$  of  $\Pi$ , this time in an asynchronous network. In this execution, parties in  $S_0$  and  $S_1$  are honest while parties in  $S_a$  are corrupted. The parties in  $S_0$  and  $S_1$  initially hold  $m_0, m_1 \leftarrow \{0, 1\}^\kappa$ , respectively. The corrupted parties interact with parties in  $S_0$  as if they are honest and have  $m_0$  in their buffer, and interact with parties in  $S_1$  as if they are honest and have  $m_1$  in their buffer. Meanwhile, all communication between parties in  $S_0$  and  $S_1$  is delayed indefinitely. The views of the honest parties in this execution are distributed identically to the views of  $S_0 \cup S_1$  in the above experiment, yet the conclusion of the preceding paragraph shows that  $t_a$ -consistency is violated with overwhelming probability.

#### C Concrete Liveness Analysis

Imagine an external observer watching the protocol, with a clock running at rate  $\rho$ . (The observer's clock is not visible to the honest parties and is not assumed to be synchronized with parties' local clocks.) Let  $\rho_i$  denote the (possibly variable) rate at which  $P_i$ 's local clock runs relative to the observer's clock.

Fix some finite interval  $I = [\mathsf{Start}, \mathsf{End}]$  during an execution of the protocol. From the perspective of the observer, it is possible to identify bounds  $\rho_{min}(I)$ ,  $\rho_{max}(I)$  on the skew of honest parties clocks during interval I, so that for all honest  $P_i$ ,  $\rho_{min} \leq \rho_i \leq \rho_{max}$ . The observer can also determine an upper bound  $\delta(I)$  such that any message sent by time  $T \in [\mathsf{Start}, \mathsf{End} - \delta]$  is delivered by time  $T + \delta$ . (Note that in an asynchronous network,  $\delta(I)$  may be significantly greater than  $\Delta$ .) Lastly, we let  $\beta_{max}$  denote the maximum number of transactions in any honest party's buffer during a given interval. We emphasize that  $\rho_{min}$ ,  $\rho_{max}$ ,  $\delta$ , and  $\beta_{max}$  do not need to be known by the honest parties, and are used only for the analysis.

For each i and each k, let  $\mathsf{Start}_{i,k}$  and  $\mathsf{End}_{i,k}$  be the time according to the observer's clock when  $P_i$  begins iteration k and when  $P_i$  outputs block k, respectively, and let  $I_{i,k}$  denote the interval  $[\mathsf{Start}_{i,k}, \mathsf{End}_{i,k}]$ . (By completeness of the protocol,  $\mathsf{End}_{i,k}$  is well-defined for all i and k.)

The claims below apply in either setting ( $t_a$  corruptions in an asynchronous network, or  $t_s$  corruptions in a synchronous network); however, in a synchronous network the bounds are naturally simpler because we have  $\rho_{min} = \rho_{max} = \rho$  and  $\delta = \Delta$ .

**Lemma 23.** For any iteration k, the number of new blocks started by honest party  $P_i$  during the interval  $I_{i,k} := [\mathsf{Start}_{i,k}, \mathsf{End}_{i,k}]$  is at most  $\tau := \frac{\rho_{max}}{\lambda} \cdot \left(\frac{5\kappa\Delta + \Delta + A(\delta,\kappa)}{\rho_{min}}\right)$  (with overwhelming probability), where  $\rho_{min}$ ,  $\rho_{max}$ ,  $\delta$ ,  $\beta_{max}$ , and  $\tau$  are measured by an external observer over the interval  $I_{i,k}$ , and  $A(\delta,\kappa)$  is an upper bound such that the local running time of  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}}$  for  $P_i$  during the interval  $I_{i,k}$  is at most  $A(\delta,\kappa)$ , with overwhelming probability in  $\kappa$ .

*Proof.* Let  $\rho_i$  be the rate of  $P_i$ 's local clock (or an upper bound on the rate, if it is variable). Each honest party  $P_i$  begins a new block every  $\lambda$  clock ticks, as measured by their local clock. Thus, the number of new blocks started by an honest party  $P_i$  during the interval  $I_{i,k}$  is the length of  $I_{i,k}$  (in global time) divided by  $\lambda/\rho_i$ .

We would like to find an upper bound on the length of  $I_{i,k}$  for all honest  $P_i$ . The most significant contributors to the length of  $I_{i,k}$  are the running time of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  and  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$ . The local running time of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  is at most  $5\kappa\Delta + \Delta$  for any honest party, because  $P_i$  will timeout at this time if  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  has not yet output. Thus, the running time of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  for  $P_i$  according to the observer's clock is at most  $\frac{5\kappa\Delta + \Delta}{\rho_i}$ . By assumption,  $\rho_{min} \leq \rho_i$  for all  $P_i$ , and so the global running time of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  for any honest party is at most  $\frac{5\kappa\Delta + \Delta}{\rho_{min}}$ . Similarly, the running time of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  from the observer's perspective is bounded above by  $\frac{A(\delta,\kappa)}{\rho_{min}}$  (with overwhelming probability in  $\kappa$ ).

We can simply add the bounds for  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  and  $\Pi^{t_a,t_s}_{\mathsf{ACS}}$  together to get an upper bound on the entire length of the interval  $I_{i,k}$ . Plugging this bound into the expression we had originally, we have the following bound on the number of new blocks started by any  $P_i$  during the interval  $I_{i,k}$ , which holds with overwhelming probability in  $\kappa$ :

$$\frac{|I_{i,k}|}{\lambda/\rho_i} \le \frac{\frac{5\kappa\Delta + \Delta}{\rho_{min}} + A(\delta, \kappa)}{\frac{\lambda}{\rho_{max}}} = \frac{\rho_{max}}{\lambda} \cdot \left(\frac{5\kappa\Delta + \Delta + A(\delta, \kappa)}{\rho_{min}}\right)$$
(2)

This completes the proof.

The following lemma concerns the overall progress of the honest parties.

**Lemma 24.** Let t denote the number of dishonest parties during an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ABC}}^{t_a,t_s}$ , and let  $\mathsf{tx}$  be a transaction that has been received by each honest  $P_i$  by time  $\mathsf{Start}_{i,k}$ . Let  $\rho_{min}$ ,  $\rho_{max}$ ,  $\delta$ ,  $\beta_{max}$ , and  $\tau$  be bounds as described above over the interval  $I_{k,k+c_x\cdot\tau}^H$ :=  $[\min_{P_i\in H}(\mathsf{Start}_{i,k}), \max_{P_j\in H}(\mathsf{End}_{j,k+c})]$ . Then with overwhelming probability in the security parameter  $\kappa$ , there are at least n-t honest parties  $P_i$  such that  $P_i$  removes at least  $\beta_{max}$  transactions from their buffer during the interval  $[\mathsf{Start}_{i,k},\mathsf{Start}_{i,k+c_x\cdot\tau}]$ , where  $c_x:=\frac{\beta_{max}}{L/n}\cdot\frac{n-t}{n-(t_s+t_a)}$ .

*Proof.* By Lemma 23, we know that every honest party  $P_i$  has output block k by time  $\mathsf{Start}_{i,k+\tau}$ . Therefore, by time  $\mathsf{Start}_{i,k+\tau}$ ,  $P_i$  has removed from their buffer any transactions that are included in  $\mathsf{Blocks}[k]$ . In particular, if  $P_i$ 's input was

included in block k, then  $P_i$  must have removed at least L/n transactions from the front of their buffer between time  $\mathsf{Start}_{i,k}$  and  $\mathsf{Start}_{i,k+\tau}$ .

Next, we can extend this argument to apply to sets of honest parties. Recall from Lemma 9 that at least  $n-(t_s+t_a)$  honest parties' inputs are included in each block. Let  $S_{k+c\cdot\tau}^*$  denote the set of honest parties whose inputs are included in block  $k+c\cdot\tau$  ( $c=0,1,2,\ldots$ ). For each  $P_i\in S_{k+c\cdot\tau}^*$ , notice that  $P_i$  must have selected L/n transactions from their buffer as input at time  $\mathsf{Start}_{i,k+c\cdot\tau}$ , and those transactions were included in block  $k+c\cdot\tau$ . Therefore,  $P_i$  must have removed at least L/n transactions from their buffer at some point during the interval  $[\mathsf{Start}_{i,k+c\cdot\tau},\mathsf{Start}_{i,k+(c+1)\tau}]$ .

Consider a sequence of sets  $S_k^*$ ,  $S_{k+\tau}^*$ ,  $S_{k+2\tau}^*$ , ..., defined as above. Suppose the adversary is able to choose  $S^*$  in each iteration, subject to the constraint that each  $S^*$  must contain at least  $n-(t_s+t_a)$  honest parties. We would like to find an upper bound on number of iterations needed to ensure that all but  $t_s$  of the honest parties have tx among the first L transactions in their buffer. For convenience, assume that each honest parties initially has exactly  $\beta_{max}$  transactions in their buffer ahead of tx, and assume without loss of generality that parties  $P_1, \ldots, P_{n-t}$  are honest. In the worst case, the adversary chooses the honest parties for each set in the sequence in a round robin fashion, i.e.:

$$S_{k+c\cdot\tau}^* = \{ P_i \mid 1 + c \cdot (n - (t_s + t_a)) \le i \le c + c \cdot (n - (t_s + t_a)) \mod (n-t) \}.$$
 (3)

Let  $c_x := \frac{\beta_{max}}{L/n} \cdot \frac{n-t}{n-(t_s+t_a)}$ , and consider the sequence of sets  $S_k^*, \ldots, S_{k+c_x\cdot\tau}^*$  determined according to the round robin strategy. All together, each honest party is in at least  $\lfloor \frac{(n-(t_s+t_a))\cdot c_x}{n-t} \rfloor = \lfloor \frac{\beta_{max}}{L/n} \rfloor$  distinct sets in the sequence. Therefore, each honest party  $P_i$  has removed at least  $\lfloor \frac{\beta_{max}}{L/n} \rfloor \cdot L/n = \beta_{max}$  transactions from their buffer during the interval  $[\mathsf{Start}_{i,k}, \mathsf{Start}_{i,k+c_x\cdot\tau}]$ .

#### D Atomic Broadcast with Improved Complexity

#### D.1 Protocol Description

This section contains a detailed description of the improved atomic broadcast protocol, UPGRADE, which was deferred from Section 6.3. Pseudocode for the protocol is presented in Protocol 1, and related utilities are defined in Figure 2.

At the beginning of the protocol, when parties choose a set of transactions to input, they will now also choose a second, larger input set, which is encrypted and sent only to the committee members. The committee members use these ciphertexts to form a separate pre-block. (To distinguish between the two, we refer to a pre-block composed of smaller ciphertexts as a 'small pre-block' and a pre-block composed of larger ciphertexts as a 'large pre-block.') Sending this large pre-block all-to-all would increase the communication complexity beyond what we can afford. Thus, the committee members create a placeholder called a block pointer that can be sent in its place at various points during the protocol. A block pointer for a large pre-block  $\beta^{lg}$  consists of a hash  $H(\beta^{lg})$  and a combined

signature by the committee members on  $H(\beta^{lg})$ . We say that a block pointer  $\tau=(h,\sigma)$  is well-formed if  $\sigma$  is a valid combined signature on h. Committee members will only create signature shares for a hash h if if they have received a pre-block  $\beta^{lg}$  such that  $h=H(\beta^{lg})$ ; thus, a block pointer acts as a promise that a corresponding pre-block exists. Now, when parties provide input to BLA and ACS, they will input a pair  $(\beta^{sm},\tau)$  where  $\beta^{sm}$  is a small pre-block and  $\tau$  is a block pointer. We refer to a pair  $(\beta^{sm},\tau)$  as a block share, and say that a block share  $(\beta^{sm},\tau)$  is well-formed if  $\beta^{sm}$  is an  $(n-\hat{t}_s)$ -quality pre-block and  $\tau$  is a well-formed block pointer. Because a block pointer is only size  $O(\kappa)$ , running BLA and ACS on block shares is only slightly more expensive than running BLA and ACS on small pre-blocks alone.

In the event that ACS outputs only a single block share  $\{(\beta^{sm}, \tau)\}$ , the committee members will wait to receive the large pre-block  $\beta^{lg}$  that matches  $\tau$ , at which point they will send  $\beta^{lg}$  in full to all parties. In this case, the parties will use  $\beta^{lg}$  to construct the final block. Alternatively, if the output of ACS contains multiple block shares, the committee members do not need to send  $\beta^{lg}$  at all. Instead, the parties will use the small pre-blocks to form the final block.

To simplify the protocol description, we implicitly assume a means of domain separation between iterations. More precisely, we assume that parties can distinguish messages belonging to iteration k from messages belonging to iteration k' for any  $k \neq k'$  in some way that does not rely on arrival time (e.g. by including a tag in each message), and a protocol message belonging to iteration k is only ever used in iteration k.

Communication complexity of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ABC}^+}^{t_a,t_s}$ . We compute the communication complexity of each step of the protocol. First, each party  $P_i$  samples a set of L/n transactions, and divides this set into n subsets of equal size. The  $j^{th}$  subset is encrypted and sent to party  $P_j$ . Each small ciphertext is size  $O(L|\mathsf{tx}|/n^2+\kappa)$ , so the total cost of this step is  $O(n^2\kappa+L|\mathsf{tx}|)$ . Separately, each party also chooses a large sample of L/n transactions, encrypts it using the committee's public key, and sends the resulting ciphertext of size  $O(L|\mathsf{tx}|/n+\kappa)$  to only the committee members. The total cost of this step is  $O(n\kappa(L|\mathsf{tx}|/n+\kappa)) = O(n\kappa^2+L|\mathsf{tx}|\kappa)$ .

As before, each party gathers the small ciphertexts they receive into a preblock. Meanwhile, the members of the committee gather large ciphertexts into a separate pre-block. A small pre-block is size  $O(L|\mathsf{tx}|/n + n\kappa)$ , and a large pre-block is size  $O(L|\mathsf{tx}| + n\kappa)$ .

A member of the committee  $P_j$  who collects a large pre-block  $\beta$  will send  $(\beta, \langle H(\beta) \rangle_j, \langle j \rangle_D)$  to all other members of the committee. These messages also have size  $O(L|\mathsf{tx}| + n\kappa)$ , because the size of the signatures is absorbed by the size of the large pre-block. Committee members will echo the first message  $(\beta', \langle H(\beta') \rangle_i, \langle i \rangle_D)$  that they receive from each other committee member  $P_i \in C$  (with their own signature and credential) until they either receive  $t_\kappa$  signatures on the same hash or they receive a block pointer directly, at which point they will

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> ACS is agnostic to the type of input it receives, so it can be used as-is. BLA is not technically agnostic to the type of input, however, we can simply amend the definition of a valid proposal to include a well-formed block pointer.

multicast the block pointer and stop echoing signatures. Sending and echoing the large pre-blocks among the committee members incurs cost  $O(\kappa^2(L|\mathsf{tx}|+n\kappa)) = O(n\kappa^3 + L|\mathsf{tx}|\kappa^2)$ . A block pointer has size  $O(\kappa)$ , and so  $\kappa$  committee members multicasting a block pointer contributes only  $O(n\kappa^2)$  communication.

Recall that in original version of the protocol, parties input pre-blocks to both BLA and ACS. In the new version, the inputs are block shares of size  $O(L|\mathsf{tx}|/n+n\kappa)$ . Previously, we showed that the communication complexity of BLA is  $O(n^3\kappa^2+n^2|m|\kappa)$  and the communication complexity of the improved ACS is  $O(n^3\kappa+n^2|m|\kappa+n^2\kappa^2)$ . Setting  $|m|=O(L|\mathsf{tx}|/n+n\kappa)$ , the communication complexity of both protocols simplifies to  $O(n^3\kappa^2+n\kappa L|\mathsf{tx}|)$ .

After the parties receive a set of block shares as output from ACS, they must use threshold decryption to reveal which transactions will be included in the block. If the output of ACS contains only one block share, then the final block will be constructed using the block pointer. In this case, each committee member multicasts the corresponding large pre-block (waiting to receive it if necessary), as well as one decryption share for each of the O(n) large ciphertexts in the block indicated by the block pointer, for a total of  $O(n^2\kappa^2 + n\kappa L|\mathbf{t}\mathbf{x}|)$ . Conversely, if the output of ACS contains more than one block share, the final block will be constructed from the small pre-blocks. In this case, each committee member sends decryption shares for each of the ciphertexts in each of the small pre-blocks. The output contains up to O(n) pre-blocks, each containing O(n) ciphertexts. Therefore, each committee member sends  $O(n^2)$  decryption shares to each party, for a total cost of  $O(n\kappa(n^2\kappa)) = O(n^3\kappa^2)$ .

Having computed the contribution of each step, we can see that the dominating terms arise from BLA, ACS, and forming the block pointer, for a total of  $O(n^3\kappa^2 + n\kappa L|\mathsf{tx}| + n\kappa^3 + L|\mathsf{tx}|\kappa^2)$  per block.

In order to compute the amortized cost of a block per transaction, we first need to compute a lower bound on the expected number of distinct transactions per block. If the final block is constructed from a large pre-block indicated by a block pointer, then it must contain samples of size L/n from at least  $n-(t_s+t_a)$ honest parties – precisely the same as the basic protocol. In this case, by Lemma 11, we know that the expected number of distinct transactions is at least L/4. If the final block is instead constructed from small pre-blocks, the calculation is not exactly the same as before, but the steps are largely the same. In this case, the final block will contain at least  $n-(t_s+t_a)$  pre-blocks input by honest parties, and each of these pre-blocks contains samples of size  $L/n^2$  from at least  $n-(t_s+t_a)$ honest parties, for a total of  $\frac{(n-(t_s+t_a))^2}{n^2} \cdot L$  honestly chosen transactions. As before, for a given transaction tx, the probability that some particular honest party's sample does not include tx is  $1 - \frac{1}{n^2}$ . By Lemma 9, at least  $n - (t_s + t_a) > n/3$  honest parties contribute transactions to B, and so the probability that none of those parties choose tx is at most  $\left(1 - \frac{1}{n^2}\right)^{n/3} \le e^{-1/9} < 9/10$ ; thus, tx is chosen by at least one of those parties with probability at least 1/10. (As before, the fact that parties' inputs are encrypted means that the adversary's ability to choose which ciphertexts are included in a block is irrelevant.) The lemma follows by linearity of expectation.

We have shown that each block contains at least O(L) distinct transactions in expectation. Setting  $L = n^2 \kappa$ , we obtain an amortized cost per transaction of  $O(n\kappa |\mathsf{tx}| + \kappa^2 |\mathsf{tx}|)$ .

Security analysis. The improved protocol is secure for up to  $\hat{t}_s$  corrupted parties in a synchronous network and up to  $t_a$  corrupted parties in an asynchronous network, where  $n > 2t_s + t_a$  and  $t_a \leq \hat{t}_s \leq (1 - 2\epsilon) \cdot t_s$ . Security for the improved protocol can be argued very similarly to the original, so we will limit our attention to details that differ from the original.

Let us begin with the consistency property. First, consider the case in which the network is synchronous and there are at most  $\hat{t}_s$  corrupted parties. In this case, any honest party's encrypted inputs will be received by all honest parties within time  $\Delta$ , and so all honest parties hold an  $n - \hat{t}_s$ -quality small pre-block by time  $T_k + \Delta$ . Likewise, the honest committee members are able to assemble a block pointer and forward it to all parties by time  $T_k + 4\Delta$ . Thus, all parties input a well-formed block share to  $\Pi_{\text{BLA}}$ .

 $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  is secure for any t < n/2 parties in a synchronous network, and so we can rely on its security properties. In particular, consistency of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}$  ensures that all honest parties output the same well-formed block share  $(\beta^{sm}, \tau)$  by time  $T_k + 4\Delta + 5\kappa\Delta$ . Therefore, all honest parties input  $(\beta^{sm}, \tau)$  to the improved ACS protocol. By  $\hat{t}_s$  validity of the ACS protocol, all honest parties receive  $(\beta^{sm}, \tau)$  as output from ACS. By the security of the underlying threshold encryption scheme, all honest parties output the same block after running the block construction utility, as desired.

In the case that the network is asynchronous and there are most  $t_a$  corrupted parties, consistency of the improved protocol follows immediately from  $t_a$ -security of the ACS subprotocol.

Turning our attention to liveness, we note that the lower bounds on the number of honest parties' inputs included in the eventual output still hold when the inputs are block shares rather than sets of ciphertexts, because  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s}$  is agnostic of the type of input value. Furthermore, as we showed earlier in this section, both the new protocol and original protocol produce blocks containing at least O(L) distinct transactions in expectation. Thus, the arguments we used to prove liveness of the original protocol can be straightforwardly adapted to the improved protocol.

Finally, we remark that the proof of Theorem 3 can be repurposed almost verbatim to prove completeness of the improved protocol, using the security properties of the block agreement subprotocol and improved ACS subprotocol.

#### D.2 Proofs

Let  $\chi_{s,n}$  denote the distribution that samples a subset of the n parties, where each party is included independently with probability s/n. We can use standard Chernoff bounds to prove the following useful facts about the composition of committees.

**Protocol 1**  $\Pi_{ABC}^{t_a,t_s}$ : an ABC protocol, described from the perspective of  $P_j$ .

```
1: for k \in [1, 2, ...] do
 2:
            committee members:
                  create a new large pre-block \beta_{j,k}^{lg} = (\bot, ..., \bot) and set flag ready_k^{lg} = false upon receiving a large signed sample (large, \langle \nu \rangle_i) from P_i:
\nif \beta_{j,k}^{lg}[i] = \bot: set \beta_{j,k}^{lg}[i] = \nu_i
\nif \beta_{j,k}^{lg} is (n - \hat{t}_s)-quality and ready_k^{lg} = false:

set ready_k^{lg} = true and send (\beta_{j,k}^{lg}, \langle H(\beta_{j,k}^{lg}) \rangle_j, \langle j \rangle_D) to each P_i \in C
 3:
 4:
 5:
 6:
 7:
                   while \tau_k = \bot:
 8:
 9:
                         upon receiving the first valid (\beta, \langle H(\beta) \rangle_i, \langle i \rangle_D) from P_i \in C:
                                   send (\beta, \langle H(\beta) \rangle_j, \langle j \rangle_D) to each P_i \in C
10:
                         upon receiving valid (\beta', \langle H(\beta') \rangle_j, \langle j \rangle_D) (for the same \beta')
11:
12:
                           from t_{\kappa} + 1 distinct P_j \in C:
13:
                              combine signature shares into a signature \sigma for H(\beta')
14:
                              set \tau_k = (H(\beta'), \sigma) and multicast \tau_k
                         upon receiving well-formed \tau = (h, \sigma):
15:
16:
                              set \tau_k = \tau and multicast \tau_k
                    upon receiving output B^* from \Pi_{ACS}^{t_a,t_s}, if B^* = \{(\beta_k^{sm}, \tau^*)\}:
17.
18:
                         wait to receive \beta such that \tau^* points to \beta, then multicast \beta
19:
             all parties:
                   create a new small pre-block \beta_{j,k}^{sm}:=(\perp,\ldots,\perp) and block pointer \tau_k=\perp
20:
21:
                   set flag ready_k^{sm} = false
22:
                  upon receiving a small signed sample (small, \langle \mu \rangle_i) from P_i:
23:
                         if \beta_{j,k}^{sm}[i] = \bot: set \beta_{j,k}^{sm}[i] = \mu_i
                         if \beta_{j,k}^{sm} is (n-\hat{t}_s)-quality and ready_k^{sm}= false: set ready_k^{sm}= true
24:
                    upon receiving a block pointer \tau = (h, \sigma) from P_i \in C:
25:
26:
                         if \tau_k = \bot: set \tau_k = \tau
27:
                   at time T_k := \lambda \cdot (k-1):
28:
                         choose a sample V \leftarrow \mathsf{ProposeTxs}(L/n, L)
                         partition V_j into n sets V_{j,1}, \ldots, V_{j,n} of size L/n^2, encrypt each set to
29:
                              form ciphertexts \mu_{j,1}, \ldots, \mu_{j,n}, and send (\mathsf{small}, \langle \mu_{j,i} \rangle_j) to each P_i.
30:
                         choose a sample W_i \leftarrow \mathsf{ProposeTxs}(L/n, L), and encrypt it to form
31:
32:
                              a ciphertext \mu. Send (large, \langle \mu \rangle_i) to each P_i \in C.
33:
                    at time T_k + 4\Delta:
                         if ready<sub>k</sub><sup>sm</sup> = true and \tau \neq \bot: input (\beta_{i,k}^{sm}, \tau) to \Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}
34:
                   at time T_k + 4\Delta + 5\kappa\Delta:
35:
36:
                         stop running \Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}}
                         if \Pi_{\mathsf{BLA}} has output well-formed (\beta_k^{sm}, \tau^*): input (\beta_k^{sm}, \tau^*) to \Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a, t_s} else: wait for ready_k^{sm} = \mathsf{true} and \tau \neq \bot, then input (\beta_{j,k}^{sm}, \tau) to \Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a, t_s}
37:
38:
                         wait for \Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}}^{t_a,t_s} to output B^* if B^* = \{(\beta_k^{sm}, \tau^*)\} = 1:
39:
40:
                              wait to receive \beta_k^{lg} such that \tau^* points to \beta_k^{lg}
41:
                              B_{out} \leftarrow \mathsf{ConstructBlock}(\{\beta_k^{lg}\})
42:
43:
                         else:
                              B_{out} \leftarrow \mathsf{ConstructBlock}(\{\beta_k^{sm} \mid (\beta_k^{sm}, \tau) \in B^*\})
44:
45:
                         set \mathsf{Blocks}[k] = B_{out} and delete all transactions \mathsf{tx} \in \mathsf{Blocks}[k] from \mathsf{buf}_i
46: end for
```

Figure 2 Utilities for  $\Pi_{ABC}^{t_a,t_s}$ , described from the point of view of party  $P_j$ 

```
1: function ProposeTxs(\ell, M):
        choose \ell values v_1, \ldots, v_\ell uniformly at random (without replacement) from
3:
            the first M values in \mathsf{buf}_i
4:
        output \{v_1,\ldots,v_\ell\}
5: function ConstructBlock(B):
                                                      \triangleright B is expected to be a set of pre-blocks
        for each pre-block \beta in B, for each unique ciphertext \mu in \beta:
6:
7:
            participate in threshold decryption for \mu
8:
       upon completing decryption of all ciphertexts \mu_1, \mu_2, \ldots:
9:
            output the set of transactions B_{out} = \{ \mathsf{tx} \mid \mathsf{tx} \in \mu_i \}
```

**Lemma 25 (Chernoff bound).** Let  $X_1, ..., X_n$  be independent Bernoulli random variables with parameter p. Let  $X := \sum_i X_i$ , so  $\mu := E[X] = p \cdot n$ . Then, for  $\delta \in [0,1]$ :

$$- \Pr[X \le (1 - \delta) \cdot \mu] \le e^{-\delta^2 \mu/2}.$$

$$- \Pr[X \ge (1 + \delta) \cdot \mu] \le e^{-\delta^2 \mu/(2 + \delta)}.$$

**Lemma 26.** Fix  $s \le n$  and  $0 < \epsilon < 1/3$ . If  $C \leftarrow \chi_{s,n}$ , then:

- 1. C contains fewer than  $(1+\epsilon) \cdot s$  parties except with probability  $e^{-\frac{\epsilon^2 s}{2+\epsilon}}$ .
- 2. C contains more than  $(1-\epsilon) \cdot s$  parties except with probability  $e^{-\frac{\epsilon^2 s}{2}}$ .
- 3. If there are at most  $\hat{t}_s \leq (1-2\epsilon) \cdot t_s$  corrupted parties, then C contains fewer than  $(1-\epsilon) \cdot s \cdot \frac{t_s}{n}$  corrupted parties except with probability at most  $e^{-\epsilon^2 s/(4-6\epsilon)}$ .
- 4. If there are at most  $t_a$  corrupted parties, then C contains more than  $(1-\epsilon) \cdot s \cdot t_s/n$  honest parties except with probability at most  $e^{-\frac{\epsilon^2 s}{3}}$ .

*Proof.* Let  $H \subseteq [n]$  be the indices of the honest parties. Let  $X_j$  be the Bernoulli random variable indicating if  $P_j \in C$ , so  $\Pr[X_j = 1] = s/n$ . Define  $Z_1 = \sum_j X_j$ ,  $Z_2 := \sum_{j \notin H} X_j$ , and  $Z_3 := \sum_{j \in H} X_j$ . Then:

1. Since  $E[Z_1] = s$ , setting  $\delta = \epsilon$  in Lemma 25 yields

$$\Pr\left[Z_1 \ge (1+\epsilon) \cdot s\right] \le e^{-\epsilon^2 s/(2+\epsilon)}.\tag{4}$$

2. Using the other half of Lemma 25, setting  $\delta = \epsilon$  yields

$$\Pr\left[Z_1 \le (1 - \epsilon) \cdot s\right] \le e^{-\epsilon^2 s/2}.\tag{5}$$

3. Since  $E[Z_2] \le \hat{t}_s \cdot s/n \le (1-2\epsilon) \cdot t_s \cdot s/n$  and  $t_s/n < 1/2$ , setting  $\delta = \frac{\epsilon}{1-2\epsilon}$  in Lemma 25 yields

$$\Pr\left[Z_2 \ge \frac{(1-\epsilon) \cdot t_s \cdot s}{n}\right] \le -e^{\epsilon^2 s/(4-6\epsilon)}.$$
 (6)

4. Assuming that there are at most  $t_a$  corrupted parties, then  $E[Z_3] \geq (n - t_a) \cdot s/n$ . Thus, plugging in  $\delta = \epsilon$ , we have

$$\Pr\left[Z_3 \le (1 - \epsilon)(n - t_a) \cdot s/n\right] \le e^{-\epsilon^2 \frac{(n - t_a)s}{2n}}.\tag{7}$$

Next, using the fact that  $t_s/n < n/2$  and  $(n - t_a)/n > 2n/3$ , we see that

$$(1 - \epsilon)s \cdot t_s/n < (1 - \epsilon)s/2 < (1 - \epsilon)s \cdot 2/3 < (1 - \epsilon)s \cdot (n - t_a)/n.$$
 (8)

Thus,  $\Pr\left[Z_3 \leq (1-\epsilon)s \cdot t_s/n\right] \leq \Pr\left[Z_3 \leq (1-\epsilon)(n-t_a) \cdot s/n\right]$ . Putting these two pieces together, we have  $\Pr[Z_3 \leq (1-\epsilon)s \cdot t_s/n] \leq e^{-\frac{\epsilon^2(n-t_a)s}{2n}} \leq e^{-\frac{\epsilon^2s}{3}}$  (note the last step is only used to simplify the bound).

### Lemma 27. $\Pi_{\mathsf{BR}^+}^{t_a,t_s}$ is $\hat{t}_s$ -valid.

Proof. Consider an execution in which the sender  $P^*$  is honest and holds input v.  $P^*$  will input h = H(v) to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}}^{t_s}$  and send v to each member of the committee. By  $t_s$ -validity of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}}^{t_s}$ , every honest party eventually receives output h such that h = H(v) from the inner broadcast. Thus, each honest committee member  $P_i$  eventually sends  $(v, h, \langle i \rangle_D)$ , upon either receiving v directly from  $P^*$ , or receiving a matching  $(v, h, \langle j \rangle_D)$  from another committee member. Additionally, no honest committee member will ever send a message  $(v', h', \langle i \rangle_D)$  such that  $h' \neq h$  or  $v' \neq v$ .

By Lemma 26, except with negligible probability, there are not enough malicious parties on the committee to cause an honest party to output  $v' \neq v$ . Furthermore, Lemma 26 also states that there are at least  $t_{\kappa} + 1$  honest parties on the committee with overwhelming probability, so all honest parties will eventually receive enough messages on (v, h) to output v and terminate.

# Lemma 28. $\Pi_{\mathsf{BB}^+}^{t_a,t_s}$ is $t_a$ -consistent.

Proof. Suppose some honest party  $P_i$  outputs a value v.  $P_i$  must have received messages of form  $(v,h,\langle j\rangle_D)$  from at least  $t_\kappa+1$  distinct members of the committee. With overwhelming probability, at least one of these messages was sent by an honest committee member. Call that committee member  $P_j$ . An honest committee member will only send such a message after receiving h as output from the inner broadcast. By  $t_a$ -consistency of the inner broadcast, all parties eventually receive h as output from the inner broadcast. Hence, no honest committee member will ever send a message  $(v',h',\langle j\rangle_D)$  for  $v'\neq v$ , because this would imply that either there is a collision such that H(v)=H(v') for  $v\neq v'$ , or that they received  $h'\neq h$  from the inner broadcast. By Lemma 26, with overwhelming probability there are at most  $t_\kappa$  malicious parties on the committee, and so with this same probability no honest party will receive the  $t_\kappa+1$  signatures for  $v'\neq v$  required to output  $v'\neq v$  during this execution.

Finally, as long as some honest committee member sent  $(v, h, \langle j \rangle_D)$ , that message will eventually arrive at all parties. This will cause any honest committee

member who is still running to echo it, if they have not already. Since we showed above that no honest party can terminate with output  $v' \neq v$ , we see that all parties will eventually receive enough messages of form  $(v, h, \langle j \rangle_D)$ , at which point they will output v and terminate.

**Lemma 29.** Let  $t_a \leq \hat{t}_s$ . Then  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^+}^{t_a,t_s}(v)$  is  $t_a$ -terminating.

*Proof.* Consider a point during an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ACS}^+}^{t_a,t_s}$  such that no honest party has seen a combined signature, and therefore, no honest parties have terminated. While this holds, the inner loop  $\Pi_{ACS}^{t_a,t_s}$  remains live due to the  $t_a$ -liveness property. Thus, at any (global) time  $t_1$  during the execution such that no honest party has yet seen a combined signature, there must be some (global) time  $t_2 > t_1$  at which an honest party in the committee outputs a value in the inner loop. Additionally, for any two honest parties that receive sets B, B' as output from  $\Pi_{ACS}^{t_a,t_s}$ , we have B = B'. By Lemma 26, with overwhelming probability, at least  $t_{\kappa} + 1$ honest parties are on the committee. This means that eventually some honest party will receive at least  $t_{\kappa} + 1$  signed outputs on the same h = H(B) from members of the committee, at which point they will form a combined signature, forward it to all parties, and begin waiting to receive B. The combined signature will eventually be delivered to any honest party who is still running, and hence they eventually also start waiting to receive such B. Because at least one of the signatures in the combined signature must have been contributed an honest committee member P' (with overwhelming probability, due to Lemma 26), every party will eventually receive the set B from P' and terminate.