

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Evaluation Methods for Chebyshev Polynomials

Zhengjun Cao, Lihua Liu, Leming Hong

Abstract. The security of cryptosystems based on Chebyshev recursive relation, Tn(x) = 2x Tn−1(x) − Tn−2(x), relies on the difficulty of finding the large degree of Chebyshev polynomials from given parameters. The relation cannot be used to evaluate Tn(x) if n is very large. We will investigate other three methods: matrix-multiplicationbased evaluation, halve-and-square evaluation, and root-extraction-based evaluation. Though they have the same theoretical complexity O(log n log<sup>2</sup> p), we find in some cases the root-extraction-based method is more efficient than the others, which is as fast as the general modular exponentiation. The result indicates that the hardness of some cryptosystems based on modular Chebyshev polynomials is almost equivalent to that of solving general discrete logarithm.

Keywords: Chebyshev polynomials; matrix-multiplication-based evaluation; halveand-square evaluation; root-extraction-based evaluation.

## 1 Introduction

Chebyshev polynomials are defined by

<span id="page-0-0"></span>
$$T_n(x) = \cos(n \arccos x), \ x \in [-1, 1], \ n = 0, 1, 2, \cdots$$
 (1)

which can make a sequence of orthogonal polynomials, and has a big contribution in the theory of approximation. Chebyshev polynomials have many interesting properties [\[8,](#page-7-0) [16,](#page-7-1) [18,](#page-7-2) [21\]](#page-8-0). Since

$$\cos(n\arccos x) + \cos((n-2)\arccos x) = 2\cos(\arccos x)\cos((n-1)\arccos x)$$

we have the general Chebyshev recursive relation,

$$T_0(x) = 1, \quad T_1(x) = x, \quad T_n(x) = 2x \cdot T_{n-1}(x) - T_{n-2}(x), \quad n = 2, 3, \dots$$
 (2)

Z. Cao is with Department of Mathematics, Shanghai University, Shanghai, 200444, China. caozhj@shu.edu.cn L. Liu and L. Hong are with Department of Mathematics, Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai, 201306, China.

{1}------------------------------------------------

Notice that

<span id="page-1-1"></span>
$$T_n(T_m(x)) = \cos(n\arccos(\cos(m\arccos x))) = \cos(nm\arccos x) = T_{nm}(x)$$
(3)

which is just the so-called semi-group property of Chebyshev polynomials (see Fig[.1](#page-1-0) for the first 12 Chebyshev polynomials). By the polynomial equality, we have Tn(Tm(a)) = Tnm(a) mod N for some integers a and N.

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1: The first 12 Chebyshev polynomials

At Eurocrypt'91, Habutsu et al. [\[7\]](#page-7-3) suggested a cryptosystem based on iterating a chaotic map. But Biham [\[3\]](#page-7-4) pointed out that it was insecure against some attacks. After that, many cryptosystems have been proposed, which were based on the difficulty of finding the large degree of Chebyshev polynomials from given parameters. Kocarev et al. [\[9,](#page-7-5) [14,](#page-7-6) [19,](#page-7-7) [24\]](#page-8-1) have presented some public-key encryptions based on Chebyshev maps. In 2015, Truong et al. [\[23\]](#page-8-2) presented an authentication scheme based on chaotic Chebyshev polynomials in client-server environment. Lawnik and Kapczynski [\[10\]](#page-7-8) investigated the application of modified Chebyshev polynomials in asymmetric cryptography. In 2019, Li et al. [\[11\]](#page-7-9) proposed an outsourcing scheme for verifiable Chebyshev maps-based chaotic encryptions in the cloud/fog scenarios.

The security of cryptosystems based on Chebyshev polynomials was discussed by Bergamo et al. [\[2,](#page-6-0) [6,](#page-7-10) [15\]](#page-7-11). In 2010, Liao et al. [\[5,](#page-7-12) [12,](#page-7-13) [13\]](#page-7-14) suggested some restrictions on the selection of underlying module. Shakiba et al. [\[17,](#page-7-15) [20,](#page-8-3) [25\]](#page-8-4) pointed out some flaws of multiplicative coupled cryptosystems based on Chebyshev polynomials. But so far, we have not found any work on evaluating Chebyshev polynomials.

In this paper, we focus on the problem of evaluating modular Chebyshev polynomials, and propose two new algorithms, halve-and-square evaluation, and root-extraction-based evaluation, different from the general matrix-multiplication-based evaluation. We find both halve-and-square method and matrix-multiplication-based method can be efficiently implemented. Though the three 

{2}------------------------------------------------

methods have the same complexity O(log n log<sup>2</sup> p), the root-extraction-based method could be more efficient than the others, if the number x can be expressed as <sup>a</sup>+a−<sup>1</sup> 2 for some number a. It almost runs as fast as the general modular exponentiation. The result indicates that the security of some systems based on modular Chebyshev polynomials is not always stronger than that of systems based on the general discrete logarithm.

## 2 Encryptions based on Chebyshev recursive relation

There are many cryptographic applications of Chebyshev polynomials [\[9,](#page-7-5) [10,](#page-7-8) [12,](#page-7-13) [14,](#page-7-6) [19,](#page-7-7) [21–](#page-8-0)[24\]](#page-8-1). In this section, we only review two kinds of encryptions: one is over the real number field, and the other is over finite fields or rings. The attacks [\[2,](#page-6-0) [3,](#page-7-4) [5,](#page-7-12) [6,](#page-7-10) [13,](#page-7-14) [15,](#page-7-11) [17,](#page-7-15) [20,](#page-8-3) [25\]](#page-8-4) are not true threats to such cryptographic protocols, because the flaws can be successfully eliminated by choosing some proper module to ensure that the period of generated sequence is quite large.

#### 2.1 Encryption over real number field

In 2003, Kocarev and Tasev [\[9\]](#page-7-5) presented a public key encryption based on Chebyshev recursive relation over real number field, which can be described as follows.

Setup. Pick a large integer s and a random number x ∈ (−1, 1). Set the public key as (x, Ts(x)) and the secret key as s.

Encrypting. Represent a given message as a number M ∈ (−1, 1). Pick a large integer r to compute the ciphertext (c1, c2) = (Tr(x), M · Tr(Ts(x))).

Decrypting. Recover the plaintext M = c2/Ts(c1).

Its correctness is due to that Ts(c1) = Ts(Tr(x)) = Tr(Ts(x)). But the equality does not strictly hold because of the involved computational errors.

#### 2.2 Encryption over finite fields or rings

The Kocarev-Tasev encryption can be converted into a counterpart over finite fields or rings. There are many such encryptions [\[10,](#page-7-8) [12,](#page-7-13) [14,](#page-7-6) [19,](#page-7-7) [21,](#page-8-0) [24\]](#page-8-1). We now only describe the Li et al.'s scheme [\[11\]](#page-7-9).

Setup. Let λ be a secure parameter, q be a λ-bit prime, H<sup>0</sup> : Z 2 <sup>q</sup> → {0, 1} λ , H : Z 2 <sup>q</sup> × {0, 1} <sup>λ</sup> → {0, 1} <sup>λ</sup> be two hash functions. Pick x<sup>0</sup> ∈ Z<sup>q</sup> and s0, s1, s<sup>2</sup> ∈ {0, 1} λ . compute x<sup>1</sup> = Ts<sup>0</sup> (x0), y<sup>1</sup> = Ts<sup>1</sup> (x0), y<sup>2</sup> = Ts<sup>2</sup> (x1), and set the public key as (q, x0, x1, y1, y2, H, H0), and the secret key as (s1, s2).

Encrypting. For a message m ∈ {0, 1} λ , pick r ∈ {0, 1} λ . Compute the ciphertext

$$(c_1, c_2, c_3, c_4) = (T_r(x_0), T_r(x_1), H_0(T_r(y_1), T_r(y_2)) \oplus m, T_r(y_2) \cdot T_\alpha(T_r(y_1))),$$

where α = H(c1, c2, c3).

{3}------------------------------------------------

Decrypting. Compute α = H(c1, c2, c3) and check that c<sup>4</sup> = Ts<sup>2</sup> (c2) · Tα(Ts<sup>1</sup> (c1)). If true, Compute m = H0(Ts<sup>1</sup> (c1), Ts<sup>2</sup> (c2)) ⊕ c3.

Its correctness is due to that

$$T_{s_1}(c_1) = T_{s_1}(T_r(x_0)) = T_r(T_{s_1}(x_0)) = T_r(y_1),$$
  
 $T_{s_2}(c_2) = T_{s_2}(T_r(x_1)) = T_r(T_{s_2}(x_1)) = T_r(y_2).$ 

## 3 Evaluating Chebyshev polynomials

The recursive relation Eq.[\(2\)](#page-0-0) cannot be used to compute Tn(x) if n is very large, because it needs to do O(n) multiplications. So, we need to find other methods for evaluating Chebyshev polynomials. If x ∈ (−1, 1), the expression Tn(x) = cos(n arccos x) can be used to evaluate. The related series representations are

$$\arccos(x) = \pi/2 - x - x^3/6 - (3x^5)/40 - \cdots,$$
  
 $\cos(x) = 1 - x^2/2 + x^4/24 - \cdots$ 

The numerical computational errors for calculating arccos x must be kept very small. Otherwise, the numerical values between cos(n arccos x) and cos((n + k) arccos x) for some moderate integer k, cannot be practically distinguished. That is to say, if n = 2160, the computational error of calculating arccos x must be restricted to 2−<sup>160</sup> at least. In practice, the requirement is too harsh to meet. So, the method is only suitable for moderate n, say, n ≤ 2 20 .

#### 3.1 Matrix-multiplication-based evaluation

The Chebyshev recursive relation can be written as

$$\begin{pmatrix} T_n(x) \\ T_{n-1}(x) \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix} 2x & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}^{n-1} \begin{pmatrix} T_1(x) \\ T_0(x) \end{pmatrix}$$
(4)

for n > 1, T0(x) = 1, T1(x) = x.

Theorem 1. The matrix-multiplication-based evaluation of Tn(x) needs to do O(log n) number multiplications.

Proof. Let bkbk−<sup>1</sup> · · · b1b<sup>0</sup> be the binary string of n − 1. We have

$$\begin{pmatrix} 2x & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}^{n-1} = \left( \cdots \left( \begin{pmatrix} 2x & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}^2 \begin{pmatrix} 2x & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}^{b_{k-1}} \right)^2 \cdots \left( \begin{pmatrix} 2x & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}^{b_1} \right)^2 \begin{pmatrix} 2x & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}^{b_0}$$

So, the method using repeated squaring needs to do log n matrix multiplications, and each requires 8 number multiplications. Thus, it requires O(log n) number multiplications. If the computations 

{4}------------------------------------------------

are executed over the finite field Fp, its computational complexity is O(log n log<sup>2</sup> p).

#### 3.2 Halve-and-square evaluation

Notice that

$$\cos(n\arccos x) = \begin{cases} 2 \cdot \cos^2(\frac{n}{2}\arccos x) - 1, & 2 \mid n \\ 2 \cdot \cos(\frac{n+1}{2}\arccos x) \cdot \cos(\frac{n-1}{2}\arccos x) - \cos(\arccos x), & 2 \nmid n. \end{cases}$$

Hence, we have

$$T_n(x) = \begin{cases} 2 \cdot T_{n/2}^2(x) - 1, & 2 \mid n \\ 2 \cdot T_{(n+1)/2}(x) \cdot T_{(n-1)/2}(x) - x, & 2 \nmid n \end{cases}$$
 (5)

For convenience, we will call it halve-and-square method.

Theorem 2. The halve-and-square evaluation of Tn(x) needs to do O(log n) number multiplications.

Proof. Given the odd degree q, we have

$$T_q(x) = 2 \cdot T_{(q+1)/2}(x) \cdot T_{(q-1)/2}(x) - x$$
 intermediate values  $T_{(q+1)/2}(x)$ ,  $T_{(q-1)/2}(x)$  
$$\xrightarrow{\text{if } 2|(q+1)/2} T_{(q+1)/2}(x) = 2 \cdot T_{(q+1)/4}^2(x) - 1, \ T_{(q-1)/2}(x) = 2 \cdot T_{(q+1)/4}(x) \cdot T_{(q-3)/4}(x) - x$$
 intermediate values  $T_{(q+1)/4}(x)$ ,  $T_{(q-3)/4}(x)$  
$$\xrightarrow{\text{if } 2|(q-3)/4} T_{(q+1)/4}(x) = 2 \cdot T_{(q+5)/8}(x) \cdot T_{(q-3)/8}(x) - x, \ T_{(q-3)/4}(x) = 2 \cdot T_{(q-3)/8}^2(x) - 1$$
 intermediate values  $T_{(q+5)/8}(x)$ ,  $T_{(q-3)/8}(x)$  ...

Clearly, the size of the constructed intermediate structure is a linear function of the recursive depth log n. Thus, the method can be efficiently executed. There are 2 log n intermediate values, and each requires one multiplication. So it needs to do O(log n) number multiplications. If the method is executed over the finite filed F<sup>p</sup> where p is a prime, then its complexity is O(log n log<sup>2</sup> p).

The semi-group property Eq.[\(3\)](#page-1-1) can also be used to evaluate Chebyshev polynomials. To do so, one needs to factor n. Ultimately, it turns to the evaluation of Tq(x) for some large prime q. In theory, this method can generate a small-size intermediate structure in comparison with the halve-and-square method. But its programming code seems quite difficult to compose.

To implement this method, one needs to find the halve-chain of the degree n. For instance, n = 1001, its halve-chain is {1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 15, 16, 31, 32, 62, 63, 125, 126, 250, 251, 500, 501, 1001}. Then the recursive description can be converted into its iterative version. We have tested the 

{5}------------------------------------------------

algorithm for the module p = 2<sup>521</sup> − 1, the number x = 1234567890987654320, and the degree n = 100000000000000000000000000000000001. The value of Tn(x) mod p is

3993370074966945731467333314441957009970464636793334345345017105800660841895880 784945487106938957173024107508599144549241834530181194450432365257682575893211.

#### 3.3 Root-extraction-based evaluation

If set x = a+a−<sup>1</sup> 2 , we have

$$\frac{a^n + a^{-n}}{2} = 2 \times \frac{a + a^{-1}}{2} \times \frac{a^{(n-1)} + a^{-(n-1)}}{2} - \frac{a^{(n-2)} + a^{-(n-2)}}{2} \mod N,$$

<span id="page-5-0"></span>
$$T_n\left(\frac{a+a^{-1}}{2}\right) = \frac{a^n + a^{-n}}{2} \mod N. \tag{6}$$

So, the intractability of some cryptosystems based on modular Chebyshev polynomials is equivalent to finding n such that y = a <sup>n</sup>+a−<sup>n</sup> <sup>2</sup> mod N, for given a, y, N, which is not the standard discrete logarithm.

For the Chebyshev polynomials over F<sup>p</sup> where p is a prime, if x can be expressed as <sup>a</sup>+a−<sup>1</sup> 2 , the evaluation of Eq.[\(6\)](#page-5-0) could be very fast because it does not need to store any intermediate value, and only involves one modular exponentiation and two inverse elements. Note that

<span id="page-5-1"></span>
$$x = \frac{(x + \sqrt{x^2 - 1}) + (x + \sqrt{x^2 - 1})^{-1}}{2}.$$

If x <sup>2</sup> − 1 mod p has square roots, we have a = x + √ x <sup>2</sup> − 1 mod p, and

$$T_n(x) = \frac{(x + \sqrt{x^2 - 1})^n + (x + \sqrt{x^2 - 1})^{-n}}{2} \bmod p$$
 (7)

The built-in function PowerMod[ ] cannot tackle a large exponent due to overflows. So, we need to design a new function MyPowerMod[ ] by using repeated squaring (See Appendix 1).

There is an efficient algorithm for root extraction, i.e., Adleman-Manders-Miller algorithm [\[1\]](#page-6-1). Its basic idea can be described as below. Write p−1 = 2<sup>t</sup> s, 2 - s. Given a quadratic residue δ and a quadratic nonresidue ρ, i.e., (δ s ) 2 t−1 ≡ 1 mod p,(ρ s ) 2 t−1 ≡ −1 mod p.. If t ≥ 2, then (δ s ) 2 t−2 mod p ∈ {1, −1}. Take k<sup>1</sup> ∈ {0, 1} such that (δ s ) 2 t−2 (ρ s ) 2 t−1 ·k<sup>1</sup> ≡ 1 mod p. Since (δ s ) 2 t−3 (ρ s ) 2 t−2 ·k<sup>1</sup> mod p ∈ {1, −1}, take k<sup>2</sup> ∈ {0, 1} such that (δ s ) 2 t−3 (ρ s ) 2 t−2 ·k<sup>1</sup> (ρ s ) 2 t−1 ·k<sup>2</sup> ≡ 1 mod p. Likewise, take k3, · · · , kt−<sup>1</sup> ∈ {0, 1} such that δ s (ρ s ) 2·k1+2<sup>2</sup> ·k2+···+2t−<sup>1</sup> ·kt−<sup>1</sup> ≡ 1 mod p. Thus,

$$\left(\delta^{\frac{s+1}{2}}\right)^2 \left((\rho^s)^{k_1+2\cdot k_2+\dots+2^{t-2}\cdot k_{t-1}}\right)^2 \equiv \delta \mod p.$$

{6}------------------------------------------------

Its computational complexity is O(log<sup>3</sup> p+t 2 log<sup>2</sup> p) (see [\[4\]](#page-7-16)). Since p is usually set as a strong prime, i.e., t = 1, it becomes O(log<sup>3</sup> p), and δ p+1 <sup>2</sup> ≡ δ mod p. If 4 | p + 1, then δ p+1 <sup>4</sup> mod p is just a square root of δ modulo p. The evaluation of Eq.[\(7\)](#page-5-1) needs O(log n log<sup>2</sup> p) cost. So, if pick a ∈ Fp, and compute x = a+a−<sup>1</sup> <sup>2</sup> mod <sup>p</sup>, then the method only needs <sup>O</sup>(log <sup>n</sup> log<sup>2</sup> p) cost.

#### 3.4 Comparisons

Both the matrix-multiplication-based method and halve-and-square method can be used to evaluate Chebyshev polynomials for x ∈ (−1, 1). For modular Chebyshev polynomials, both methods naturally have to compute the successive values Tk−1(x), Tk(x) in each loop, while the rootextraction-based method only needs to compute the value Tk(x) in each loop. See the Table [1](#page-6-2) for the comparisons of the three methods.

<span id="page-6-2"></span>Table 1: Comparisons of some evaluation methods

|                                    | Numerical  | Modular    | Immediate | Multiplications | Complexity      |
|------------------------------------|------------|------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------|
|                                    | evaluation | evaluation | structure | in each loop    |                 |
| Matrix-multiplication-based method | Yes        | Yes        | No        | 8               | O(log n log2 p) |
| Halve-and-square method            | Yes        | Yes        | Yes       | 2               | O(log n log2 p) |
| Root-extraction-based method       | No         | Yes        | No        | 2               | O(log3 p) or    |
|                                    |            |            |           |                 | O(log n log2 p) |

We find there has no any significant performance difference between the methods (Appendix 1). In theory, the root-extraction-based method could be more efficient. If one directly picks a and sets x = a+a−<sup>1</sup> <sup>2</sup> mod p, this method almost is as fast as the general modular exponentiation. So the claim that the security of systems based on modular Chebyshev polynomials is stronger than that of systems based on the general discrete logarithm is not always sound.

## 4 Conclusion

In this paper, we propose two new evaluation methods for Chebyshev polynomials. They have the same complexity O(log n log<sup>2</sup> p) as the general matrix-multiplication-based method. The explicit expression Tn( a+a−<sup>1</sup> 2 ) = <sup>a</sup> <sup>n</sup>+a−<sup>n</sup> 2 indicates that the hardness of some cryptosystems based on modular Chebyshev polynomials is almost equivalent to that of solving general discrete logarithm.

## References

- <span id="page-6-1"></span>[1] L. Adleman, K. Manders, and G. Miller. On taking roots in finite fields. In Proceedings of 18th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science, pages 175–178. IEEE Computer Society, 1977.
- <span id="page-6-0"></span>[2] P. Bergamo and et al. Security of public-key cryptosystems based on chebyshev polynomials. IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I Regul. Pap., 52-I(7):1382–1393, 2005.

{7}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-7-4"></span>[3] E. Biham. Cryptanalysis of the chaotic-map cryptosystem suggested at eurocrypt'91. In Proceeding of Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT '91, Workshop on the Theory and Application of of Cryptographic Techniques, Brighton, UK, April 8-11, 1991, pages 532–534. Springer, 1991.
- <span id="page-7-16"></span>[4] Z. Cao, Q. Sha, and X. Fan. Adleman-Manders-Miller root extraction method revisited. In Proceedings of Information Security and Cryptology - 7th International Conference, pages 77– 85. Springer, 2011.
- <span id="page-7-12"></span>[5] F. Chen, X. Liao, T. Xiang, and H. Zheng. Security analysis of the public key algorithm based on chebyshev polynomials over the integer ring Z n. Inf. Sci., 181(22):5110–5118, 2011.
- <span id="page-7-10"></span>[6] K. Cheong and T. Koshiba. More on security of public-key cryptosystems based on chebyshev polynomials. IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II Express Briefs, 54-II(9):795–799, 2007.
- <span id="page-7-3"></span>[7] T. Habutsu and et al. A secret key cryptosystem by iterating a chaotic map. In Proceedings of Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT'91, Workshop on the Theory and Application of of Cryptographic Techniques, Brighton, UK, April 8-11, 1991, pages 127–140, 1991.
- <span id="page-7-0"></span>[8] M. Hunziker, A. Machiavelo, and J. Park. Chebyshev polynomials over finite fields and reversibility of automata on square grids. Theor. Comput. Sci., 320(2-3):465–483, 2004.
- <span id="page-7-5"></span>[9] L. Kocarev and Z. Tasev. Public-key encryption based on chebyshev maps. In Proceedings of the 2003 International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, ISCAS 2003, Bangkok, Thailand, May 25-28, 2003, pages 28–31. IEEE, 2003.
- <span id="page-7-8"></span>[10] M. Lawnik and A. Kapczynski. The application of modified chebyshev polynomials in asymmetric cryptography. Comput. Sci., 20(3), 2019.
- <span id="page-7-9"></span>[11] J. Li and et al. Verifiable chebyshev maps-based chaotic encryption schemes with outsourcing computations in the cloud/fog scenarios. Concurr. Comput. Pract. Exp., 31(22), 2019.
- <span id="page-7-13"></span>[12] Z. Li, Y. Cui, Y. Jin, and H. Xu. Parameter selection in public key cryptosystem based on chebyshev polynomials over finite field. J. Commun., 6(5):400–408, 2011.
- <span id="page-7-14"></span>[13] X. Liao, F. Chen, and K. Wong. On the security of public-key algorithms based on chebyshev polynomials over the finite field Z n. IEEE Trans. Computers, 59(10):1392–1401, 2010.
- <span id="page-7-6"></span>[14] J. Lima, D. Panario, and R. Souza. Public-key encryption based on chebyshev polynomials over GF(q). Inf. Process. Lett., 111(2):51–56, 2010.
- <span id="page-7-11"></span>[15] J. Lima, R. Souza, and D. Panario. Security of public-key cryptosystems based on chebyshev polynomials over prime finite fields. In Proceedings of IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, ISIT 2008, Toronto, ON, Canada, July 6-11, 2008, pages 1843–1847. IEEE, 2008.
- <span id="page-7-1"></span>[16] J. Mason. Chebyshev polynomials of the second, third and fourth kinds in approximation, indefinite integration, and integral transforms. J. Compu. Appl. Math., (49):169–178, 1993.
- <span id="page-7-15"></span>[17] C. Quan and et al. Cryptanalysis of a chaotic chebyshev polynomials based remote user authentication scheme. In Proceedings of International Conference on Information Networking, ICOIN 2018, Chiang Mai, Thailand, January 10-12, 2018, pages 438–441. IEEE, 2018.
- <span id="page-7-2"></span>[18] C. Qureshi and D. Panario. The graph structure of chebyshev polynomials over finite fields and applications. Des. Codes Cryptogr., 87(2-3):393–416, 2019.
- <span id="page-7-7"></span>[19] G. Rajaram, K. Ramar, and P. Pillai. Public key cryptosystems based on chaotic-chebyshev

{8}------------------------------------------------

- polynomials. In Proceeding of International Conference on Advances in Recent Technologies in Communication and Computing, Kottayam, Kerala, India, 27-28 October 2009, pages 4–8. IEEE Computer Society, 2009.
- <span id="page-8-3"></span>[20] A. Shakiba, M. Hooshmandasl, and M. Meybodi. Cryptanalysis of multiplicative coupled cryptosystems based on the chebyshev polynomials. Int. J. Bifurc. Chaos, 26(7):1–11, 2016.
- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[21] J. Tirrell and Y. Zhuang. Hopping from chebyshev polynomials to permutation statistics. Electron. J. Comb., 26(3):P3.27, 2019.
- [22] T. Truong, M. Tran, and A. Duong. Improved chebyshev polynomials-based authentication scheme in client-server environment. Secur. Commun. Networks, 2019:4250743:1–4250743:11, 2019.
- <span id="page-8-2"></span>[23] T. Truong, M. Tran, A. Duong, and I. Echizen. Chaotic chebyshev polynomials based remote user authentication scheme in client-server environment. In Proceedings of ICT Systems Security and Privacy Protection - 30th IFIP TC 11 International Conference, SEC 2015, Hamburg, Germany, May 26-28, 2015, pages 479–494. Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-8-1"></span>[24] S. Yan, P. Zhen, and L. Min. Provably secure public key cryptosystem based on chebyshev polynomials. J. Commun., 10(6):380–384, 2015.
- <span id="page-8-4"></span>[25] D. Yoshioka. Security of public-key cryptosystems based on chebyshev polynomials over Z/pkZ. IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II Express Briefs, 67-II(10):2204–2208, 2020.

{9}------------------------------------------------

Appendix 1: Wolfram Mathematica codes for three evaluation methods