

{0}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-0-0"></span>Interactive Proofs for Batch Polynomial Evaluation

Gal Arnon galarnon42@gmail.com Bocconi University

Alessandro Chiesa alessandro.chiesa@epfl.ch EPFL

Giacomo Fenzi giacomo.fenzi@epfl.ch EPFL

Eylon Yogev eylon.yogev@biu.ac.il Bar-Ilan University

March 5, 2026

#### Abstract

Polynomials are a fundamental mathematical object underlying virtually all of theoretical computer science. In proof systems, a common task for the verifier is to evaluate a polynomial of degree d at m distinct points. The best known algorithm for this problem performs O((m + d) · log<sup>2</sup> (m + d)) field operations.

We present a concretely efficient MA protocol for this problem in which the verifier runs in linear time: the prover sends a single message consisting of d − 1 field elements, and the verifier performs only O(m + d) field operations. We further extend our protocol to handle the more general setting of evaluating multiple polynomials at multiple points, and for this problem, we construct an AMA protocol.

Our protocols improve the verifier time in several interactive proofs. Most notably are the sumcheck protocol over a large summation domain and protocols that rely on polynomial quotienting. In particular, by a straightforward application of our results, we reduce the verifier's runtime in the STIR protocol (CRYPTO 2024) to match that of WHIR (EUROCRYPT 2025), despite WHIR being highly optimized for verification time.

As an additional application, we show that any univariate polynomial commitment schemes (PCS) can be transformed, in a black-box manner, into a new scheme that efficiently supports batch openings at multiple points. In particular, opening m points incurs only a constant overhead compared to opening a single point.

Keywords: interactive proofs; polynomial evaluation

{1}------------------------------------------------

## Contents

| 1 | Introduction                                                   | 1  |  |  |
|---|----------------------------------------------------------------|----|--|--|
|   | 1.1<br>Our results<br>                                         | 2  |  |  |
|   | 1.2<br>Application: batching polynomial commitment schemes<br> | 3  |  |  |
|   | 1.3<br>Comparison with prior work                              | 4  |  |  |
| 2 | Preliminaries                                                  | 5  |  |  |
|   | 2.1<br>Zero multiplicities of polynomials                      | 5  |  |  |
|   | 2.2<br>Interactive proofs and PIOPs<br>                        | 5  |  |  |
| 3 | Zero multiplicity distance lemma                               |    |  |  |
| 4 | Protocols for batch polynomial evaluation                      | 10 |  |  |
|   | 4.1<br>Proof of Theorem 4.2                                    | 11 |  |  |
|   | 4.2<br>Proof of Theorem 4.3                                    | 12 |  |  |
| 5 | Query reduction for PIOPs                                      | 16 |  |  |
| 6 | Improving the verifier time of STIR                            | 20 |  |  |
|   | Acknowledgments                                                |    |  |  |
|   | References                                                     |    |  |  |

{2}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-2-0"></span>1 Introduction

Polynomials play a central role in the design of cryptographic protocols, where they are used as the algebraic backbone of numerous primitives and constructions. These include important notions such as error-correcting codes, secret sharing schemes, commitment schemes, probabilistically checkable proofs, interactive proofs, and succinct non-interactive arguments. In particular, the algebraic structure of polynomials is at the heart of the efficiency and soundness of many modern proof systems where polynomials are used to encode computation, and their algebraic structure enables the construction of crucial tools such as consistency checks via low-degree testing, interpolation, and evaluation arguments.

As a result, the task of verifying polynomial evaluations—i.e., checking that one or more claimed values correspond to the evaluation of a specific low-degree polynomial at a given set of points—is ubiquitous across interactive and non-interactive proof systems. This task is especially prominent in polynomial commitment schemes and related primitives, where a prover commits to a polynomial and later proves evaluations at points of the verifier's choosing.

Batch polynomial evaluation. In this work, we study the problem PolyEvalF of batch verification of polynomial evaluation claims over a field F. Given a list of m pairs (x<sup>i</sup> , yi), the verifier must efficiently check that p(xi) = y<sup>i</sup> for all i, where p is a degree d polynomial provided to the verifier in some form (we later give a generalization that considers also the evaluation of multiple polynomials). We usually think of m as being much larger than d. The PolyEvalF problem arises in various cryptographic protocols, particularly where an untrusted prover is involved. Notable applications include SNARK proof aggregation, the construction of lookup arguments, and protocols leveraging the sumcheck or multilinear extension paradigms (e.g., [\[LFKN92;](#page-24-0) [Sha92;](#page-25-0) [GKR15;](#page-24-1) [GR17;](#page-24-2) [GR18;](#page-24-3) [RR20;](#page-24-4) [ACFY24\]](#page-23-2)).

A straightforward approach uses Horner's method [\[BFST03\]](#page-23-3), which evaluates a degree d polynomial at a single point using d field multiplications and d additions. Applying Horner's method independently to each of the m evaluation points results in a total cost of O(m · d) field operations. While Horner's method is optimal for evaluating a single point, more efficient algorithms exist for the multipoint setting.

A classical result in algebraic complexity (see [\[GG13,](#page-24-5) Chapter 10] and [\[Fid72\]](#page-24-6)) is an algorithm that performs O (d + m) · log<sup>2</sup> (d + m) field operations. However, upon investigation, the hidden constant in the big-O notation is large in practice, limiting the practicality of this approach for moderate input sizes. Alternatively, the Barycentric interpolation method gives a linear time algorithm of O(d + m), but with a quadratic O(m<sup>2</sup> ) preprocessing phase (that depends on the points and not the polynomials) [\[Tre04\]](#page-25-1). This method is employed across various components of the Ethereum network [\[But23\]](#page-23-4).

When the evaluation points lie in a structured domain (e.g., FFT-friendly sets), even faster algorithms are possible. However, this paper focuses on the general case of arbitrary evaluation points—a necessity in many applications, for example, when the evaluation points are chosen uniformly at random. As the PolyEvalF verification problem frequently arises in the context of interactive proofs, we ask:

Can PolyEvalF be decided more efficiently with the help of an untrusted prover?

In this work, we answer this question in the affirmative.

{3}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-3-0"></span>1.1 Our results

We give an efficient single-message protocol for PolyEvalF where the verifier runs in strictly linear time: it evaluates the polynomial p at a single location and, additionally, makes a small number of field operations.

<span id="page-3-1"></span>Theorem 1 (informal, [Theorem 4.2\)](#page-11-1). There is an MA proof for PolyEvalF where:

- the soundness error is <sup>m</sup>+<sup>d</sup> |F|−m ,
- the prover sends a single degree d − 1 polynomial and makes O(d · m) field operations; and
- the verifier makes O(d + m) field operations. More precisely, the verifier makes 2d + 3m multiplications and additions and a single inversion.

The above theorem immediately extends to speeding up polynomial interpolation, where the goal is to compute the coefficients of the unique low-degree univariate polynomial that passes through a given set of points. In this setting, the prover can send the interpolated polynomial in coefficient form and then prove to the verifier that it evaluates correctly at all the specified points.

Multiple polynomials and multiple points. We also consider the problem of batch polynomial evaluation with multiple polynomials as well as multiple evaluation points.

In the problem MultPolyEvalF , given degree d polynomials p1, . . . , p<sup>ℓ</sup> and a list of m tuples of the form (x<sup>i</sup> , yi,1, . . . , yi,ℓ), [1](#page-0-0) we check that for all i and j it holds that pi(x<sup>j</sup> ) = yi,j . Applying [Theorem 1](#page-3-1) for each of the ℓ polynomials would incur an ℓ multiplicative overhead to the communication. Our next theorem shows that these proofs can be batched together at the cost of a single verifier message:

<span id="page-3-2"></span>Theorem 2 (informal, [Theorem 4.3\)](#page-11-2). There is an AMA protocol for MultPolyEvalF where:

- the round-by-round soundness[2](#page-0-0) error is <sup>ℓ</sup>+m+<sup>d</sup> |F|−m ,
- the prover sends a single degree d − 1 polynomial and makes O(d · m + d · ℓ) field operations; and
- the verifier makes O(m · ℓ + d · ℓ) field operations. More precisely, the verifier makes dℓ + 5mℓ multiplications, dℓ + 4mℓ additions, and a single inversion.

Large fields. The soundness errors of [Theorem 1](#page-3-1) and [Theorem 2](#page-3-2) require the size of the field |F| to be large relative to the size of the input polynomials. Similarly to prior work, the requirement can be relaxed by sampling challenges in the protocols from a sufficiently large extension field of F. Immediate applications. Our protocols allow for optimizing the verifier in many protocols where the verifier needs to evaluate polynomials. We describe two main such applications.

• The sumcheck protocol. The sumcheck protocol [\[LFKN92\]](#page-24-0) is an influential protocol used both in theory and practice for proving claims of the form

$$\sum_{x_1,\dots,x_v\in H} p(x_1,\dots,x_v) = \gamma ,$$

for a v-variate polynomial p of individual degree d. During the protocol, the verifier must check v claims of the form P <sup>x</sup>∈<sup>H</sup> qi(x) = γ<sup>i</sup> where q<sup>i</sup> is a degree d univariate polynomial. This step is typically implemented naively in time Ω(v · d · |H|).

<sup>1</sup>Actually, we can generalize this further so that not all polynomials must take part in each evaluation point and the polynomials are not required to have the same degree.

<sup>2</sup>Round-by-round soundness is a stronger variant of soundness, which is used when making protocols noninteractive using the Fiat–Shamir heuristic.

{4}------------------------------------------------

Using [Theorem 2,](#page-3-2) the running time is reduced to O(v · d + v · |H|) at the cost of an additional round of communication with v · |H| + d − 1 field elements.

• Quotienting. Polynomial quotienting is a technique used in practice by many protocols, such as STIR [\[ACFY24\]](#page-23-2) and ARC [\[BMNW24\]](#page-23-5). At a high level, in these protocols, the verifier must evaluate at many points a function

$$f(X) = \frac{g(X) - \operatorname{Ans}(X)}{V(X)} ,$$

where g is an oracle function, and Ans and V are degree d polynomials. This computation is often an efficiency bottleneck in the running time of the verifier. Indeed, as a result, the recent WHIR protocol [\[ACFY25\]](#page-23-6) was developed, in part, to improve the verification time of STIR by avoiding quotient computations on the verifier's side.

Our protocol can be used to directly improve the computation of the quotient, and thus the verifier complexity. We adapt STIR using this technique, resulting in the STIR-SHAKE protocol, which reduces the verifier's running time to asymptotically match that of WHIR. See [Section 6](#page-21-0) for a more in-depth discussion and analysis.

Immediate generalizations. The techniques in our protocol directly yield a MA protocol to check whether, for a given list of polynomials u1, . . . , u<sup>m</sup> and w1, . . . , w<sup>m</sup> (such that the zeros of w<sup>i</sup> are pairwise disjoint) the zeros of w<sup>i</sup> are contained within the zeros of u<sup>i</sup> up to multiplicities. The verifier in the generalized protocol performs a single evaluation of each of the u<sup>i</sup> , w<sup>i</sup> polynomials, an evaluation of a single additional polynomial and O(m) additional field operations. We refer the reader to [Section 3](#page-8-0) for details.

#### <span id="page-4-0"></span>1.2 Application: batching polynomial commitment schemes

The protocols underlying [Theorem 1](#page-3-1) and [Theorem 2](#page-3-2) have a useful structure: they can be interpreted as polynomial IOPs (PIOP). In a PIOP, the prover's messages are bounded-degree polynomials, and the verifier queries these polynomials via evaluation queries. Polynomial IOPs [\[RRR16;](#page-25-2) [CHM-](#page-24-7)[MVW20;](#page-24-7) [BFS20\]](#page-23-7) are a fundamental building block of most modern SNARGs. By utilizing this fact about our IPs, we show a generic compiler for reducing the query complexity of any PIOP:

<span id="page-4-1"></span>Theorem 3 (informal, [Theorem 5.1\)](#page-17-1). Let Π be a k-round PIOP for a relation R. Then there is a (k + 1)-round PIOP Π′ where the prover sends a single polynomial more than Π, and the verifier makes exactly one query to every polynomial sent by the prover in Π′ .

[Theorem 3](#page-4-1) has a surprising consequence for (univariate) polynomial commitment schemes. A polynomial commitment scheme (PCS) [\[KZG10;](#page-24-8) [PST13\]](#page-24-9) is a cryptographic primitive that enables a sender to succinctly commit to a polynomial and then subsequently succinctly open desired evaluations of the committed polynomial. PCS are commonly used to compile PIOPs into arguments. In this context, a highly desirable property of a PCS is "batch opening", where the sender succinctly opens a large set of points (with an opening size that is independent of the number of points). However, not all PCS schemes support batch opening, and often designing a PCS with such property is significantly harder than designing a non-batchable PCS (this was raised in [\[AFLN24\]](#page-23-8) in the context of batching openings of lattice-based PCSs [\[FMN24;](#page-24-10) [AFLN24;](#page-23-8) [NS24;](#page-24-11) [CMNW24\]](#page-24-12)).

{5}------------------------------------------------

When compiling PIOPs into arguments, designing a PCS with batch openings is not necessary, as the underlying PIOP can be first transformed into a PIOP where each polynomial sent by the prover is queried exactly once by [Theorem 3,](#page-4-1) and then compiled with a PCS. Since the PIOP queries each polynomial exactly once, no batching property of the PCS is required.

#### <span id="page-5-0"></span>1.3 Comparison with prior work

The efficient batching of polynomial commitments and their openings is a widely studied notion in constructing succinct arguments from PIOPs. We present and compare our results to two main examples: Halo Infinite [\[BDFG21\]](#page-23-9) in the univariate setting, and Hyperplonk [\[CBBZ23\]](#page-23-10) in the multivariate setting.

• Univariate. [\[BDFG21\]](#page-23-9) considers batching univariate polynomial commitments in the case where the commitments are additively homomorphic (for example, if the commitments are elements of an abelian group) or possesses a linear combination scheme (i.e., it is possible from ℓ commitments and ℓ coefficients to compute a commitment to the linear combination of the committed values with the specified coefficients). Using the language introduced in the recent work [\[BDRNT25\]](#page-23-11), it yields a version of [Theorem 3](#page-4-1) for homomorphic PIOPs.

In contrast, our protocols require no assumption on the underlying PIOP (and, consequently, on the underlying polynomial commitment scheme). Further, our protocol requires fewer rounds of interaction.

Taking as an example batching the evaluation of a single polynomial at many points (the setting of [Theorem 4.2\)](#page-11-1), our protocols yield an MA proof for batch evaluation of a single polynomial at multiple points. In contrast, the protocol of [\[BDFG21\]](#page-23-9) requires an additional round of interaction.

• Multivariate. [\[CBBZ23;](#page-23-10) [RR22\]](#page-24-13) deal with reducing query complexity of multivariate/multilinear PIOPs. While the problem statement is similar to the univariate case, batching multilinear polynomial evaluations uses significantly different techniques. In particular, all known techniques to solve this problem utilize the multivariate sumcheck protocol [\[LFKN92\]](#page-24-0), which significantly increases round complexity (typically increasing round complexity to at least O(m) where m is the number of variables) compared to solutions for the univariate case. Our protocol (for univariate polynomials) does not suffer from such an overhead. On the other hand, multilinear batching technique are typically more efficient for the prover (as it needs to perform only a linear amount of field operations). We do not know how to adapt our techniques to achieve linear time complexity, nor how to use them to reduce the round complexity of multilinear polynomial batching, and consider them interesting open problems.

{6}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-6-0"></span>2 Preliminaries

We define objects and notation that we use in this paper.

- For  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  we let  $[n] := \{1, \dots, n\}$ .
- For two functions  $f: \mathcal{L} \to \mathbb{F}$  and  $g: \mathcal{D} \to \mathbb{F}$ ,  $\Delta(f,g)$  denotes the fraction of points in  $\mathcal{L} \cap \mathcal{D}$  in which they disagree. For a set  $\mathcal{S} \subseteq \mathbb{F}^{\mathcal{D}}$ ,  $\Delta(f,\mathcal{S}) := \min_{h \in \mathcal{S}} \Delta(f,h)$ .

#### <span id="page-6-1"></span>2.1 Zero multiplicities of polynomials

<span id="page-6-3"></span>We give definitions regarding the zeroes of polynomials and their multiplicities.

**Definition 2.1.** Let  $p \in \mathbb{F}[X]$  and  $z \in \mathbb{F}$ . We define the following:

- $\bullet \ \operatorname{zeros}(p) \coloneqq \{x \in \mathbb{F} \ : \ p(x) = 0\},$
- $\operatorname{mult}(p, z) \coloneqq \max\{t \in \mathbb{N} : (X z)^t \mid p(X)\},\$
- $\operatorname{zmult}(p) := \{(z, t) : z \in \operatorname{zeros}(p) \land t = \operatorname{mult}(p, z)\}.$

Additionally, we write

$$\mathsf{zmult}(p) \sqsubseteq \mathsf{zmult}(q)$$

if for every  $(z,t) \in \mathsf{zmult}(p)$  there exists t' such that  $(z,t') \in \mathsf{zmult}(q)$  and  $t' \geq t$ .

We recall the following fact on the multiplicities of the product of polynomials.

<span id="page-6-4"></span>**Fact 2.2.** For every  $z \in \mathbb{F}$  and  $p, q \in \mathbb{F}[X]$ ,  $\mathsf{mult}(p \cdot q, z) = \mathsf{mult}(p, z) + \mathsf{mult}(q, z)$ .

#### <span id="page-6-2"></span>2.2 Interactive proofs and PIOPs

A (public-coin) interactive proof (IP) for a language L is a tuple of interactive algorithms ( $\mathbf{P}, \mathbf{V}$ ) that works as follows:  $\mathbf{P}$  and  $\mathbf{V}$  receive as input an instance  $\mathbf{x}$  and then interact over  $\mathbf{k}$  rounds, where in each round  $i \in [\mathbf{k}]$  the prover sends a message  $m_i$  and the verifier sends a random message  $\alpha_i$ . We require the following properties.

• Completeness. For every  $x \in L$ ,

$$\Pr_{\alpha_1,\dots,\alpha_k} \left[ \mathbf{V}(\mathbf{x},\alpha_1,m_1,\dots,\alpha_k,m_k) = 1 \middle| \begin{array}{l} m_1 \leftarrow \mathbf{P}(\mathbf{x}) \\ \vdots \\ m_k \leftarrow \mathbf{P}(\mathbf{x},\alpha_1,\dots,\alpha_k) \end{array} \right] = 1 .$$

• Soundness with error  $\beta$ . For every  $x \notin L$  and unbounded malicious prover  $\tilde{\mathbf{P}}$ ,

$$\Pr_{\alpha_1,\ldots,\alpha_k} \left[ \mathbf{V}(\mathbf{x},\alpha_1,m_1,\ldots,\alpha_k,m_k) = 1 \middle| \begin{array}{l} m_1 \leftarrow \tilde{\mathbf{P}}(\alpha_1) \\ \vdots \\ m_k \leftarrow \tilde{\mathbf{P}}(\alpha_1,\ldots,\alpha_k) \end{array} \right] \leq \beta(\mathbf{x}) .$$

**MA and AMA.** An IP is an MA proof if k = 1 in the above definition (the interaction consists of a single prover message followed by a single verifier message). An IP is an AMA proof if k = 2 and  $m_1$  is empty in the above definition (the interaction consists of a verifier message, a prover message, and a verifier message).

{7}------------------------------------------------

PIOP. A polynomial IOP is an IP where the (honest and malicious) prover is restricted to sending only polynomials (over field and of degree determined as part of the definition of the IP), and the verifier is restricted to reading the prover's messages only by evaluating these polynomials on points in the field. In a PIOP, in addition to running times of the parties, we keep track of the number of polynomials sent, their degrees, and the number of evaluations (queries) made by the verifier.

Round-by-round soundness. A state function State for an IP (P, V) has the following structure for any instance x and partial transcript tr:

- If x ∈/ L and tr = ∅ then State(x,tr) = 0.
- If tr ends in a verifier message and State(x,tr) = 0 then State(x,tr∥m) = 0 for every prover message m.
- If tr is a full transcript of (P, V) then State(x,tr) = V(x,tr).

A k-round IP has round-by-round soundness error (ε1, . . . , εk) if there exists a state function State such that for every x and transcript tr ending in the prover's i-th message where State(x,tr) = 0,

$$\Pr_{\alpha_{i+1}} \left[ \mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x}, \mathsf{tr} || \alpha_{i+1}) = 1 \right] \le \varepsilon_i \ .$$

We sometimes overload the term, and say that the IP has round-by-round soundness error ε if it has round-by-round soundness error (ε1, . . . , εk) and ε ≤ max{ε1, . . . , εk}.

{8}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-8-0"></span>3 Zero multiplicity distance lemma

We state and prove a technical lemma stating that the sum of quotients of polynomials is close to a low-degree polynomial if and only if each numerator vanishes exactly where the denominator does. Consider polynomials  $u_1, \ldots, u_m$  and  $w_1, \ldots, w_m$  and the quotient function  $f := \sum_{i \in [m]} u_i/w_i$ . The lemma says that if f is sufficiently close to a low-degree polynomial then, for every  $i \in [m]$ , the zeroes of  $w_i$  are zeros of  $w_i$  and this holds while respecting multiplicities (if z is a zero of  $w_i$  with multiplicity t then z is a zero of  $w_i$  with multiplicity at least t).

We use this lemma multiple times by setting  $u_i$  to be  $p(X) - b_i$  and  $w_i$  to be  $X - a_i$ ; in this case, by the lemma, if  $p(a_i) \neq b_i$  (in which case  $X - a_i$  does not divide  $p(X) - b_i$ ) then the function  $\sum_i (p(X) - b_i)/(X - a_i)$  is far from any low-degree polynomial.

The lemma is formally stated below using the notation of Definition 2.1. We deem the lemma of independent interest, especially in the context of prover-aided computation (e.g., one can extend our IPs for batch polynomial evaluation to cover any polynomials for which Lemma 3.1 holds).

<span id="page-8-1"></span>**Lemma 3.1.** Let  $(u_1, w_1) \dots, (u_m, w_m)$  be such that  $u_i \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq d_i}[X]$  and  $w_i \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq e_i}[X]$ , and assume that the sets  $(\mathsf{zeros}(w_i))_{i \in [m]}$  are pairwise disjoint. Define  $\mathcal{Z} := \bigcup_i \mathsf{zeros}(w_i)$ ,  $k := \max_i \{d_i - e_i\}$ , and  $s := \sum_i e_i$ . Let  $f : \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{Z} \to \mathbb{F}$  be

$$f(X) := \sum_{i \in [m]} \frac{u_i(X)}{w_i(X)} .$$

If  $\Delta(f, \mathbb{F}^{\leq k}[X]) \leq 1 - \frac{k+s+1}{|\mathbb{F}|-|\mathcal{Z}|}$ , then  $\mathsf{zmult}(w_i) \sqsubseteq \mathsf{zmult}(u_i)$  for every  $i \in [m]$ .

Proof. Suppose  $\Delta(f, \mathbb{F}^{\leq k}[X]) \leq 1 - \frac{k+s+1}{|\mathbb{F}|-|\mathcal{Z}|}$  and let  $v \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq k}[X]$  be the closest polynomial to f (in terms of Hamming distance over  $\mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{Z}$  and breaking ties arbitrarily). Letting  $S := \{z \in \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{Z} : f(z) = v(z)\}$  be the agreement domain between f and v, observe that |S| > k + s. Define  $A(X) := \prod_{i \in [m]} w_i(X)$ , and note that  $A(X) \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq s}[X]$ , and that A(z) = 0 for every  $z \in \mathcal{Z}$ . By definition of f, for every  $z \in \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{Z}$ ,

$$f(z) \cdot A(z) = \sum_{i \in [m]} \frac{u_i(z)}{w_i(z)} \cdot \prod_{j \in [m]} w_j(z) = \sum_{i \in [m]} u_i(z) \cdot \prod_{j \neq i} w_j(z) .$$

Define  $g_1, g_2 \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq k+s}[X]$  as follows:

$$g_1(X) := v(X) \cdot A(X) ,$$
  

$$g_2(X) := \sum_{i \in [m]} u_i(X) \cdot \prod_{j \neq i} w_j(X) .$$

For every  $z \in S$ ,  $g_1(z) = v(z) \cdot A(z) = f(z) \cdot A(z) = g_2(z)$ . That is,  $g_1$  and  $g_2$  agree on all points in S, and have degree  $\leq k + s$ . Since |S| > k + s,  $g_1$  and  $g_2$  are the same polynomial. Consider  $(z_\ell, t_\ell) \in \mathsf{zmult}(w_\ell)$ . Then,  $w_\ell(X) = (X - z_\ell)^{t_\ell} \cdot z(X)$ , and we can write  $g_2(X) = (X - z_\ell)^{t_\ell} \cdot s(X) + u_\ell \cdot \prod_{j \neq \ell} w_j(X)$ . Further, by Fact 2.2,

$$\operatorname{mult}(g_2, z_\ell) = \operatorname{mult}(g_1, z_\ell) = \operatorname{mult}(v, z_\ell) + \operatorname{mult}(A, z_\ell) \ge t_\ell$$

which implies that  $(X - z_{\ell})^{t_{\ell}}$  divides  $u_{\ell}(X) \cdot \prod_{j \neq \ell} w_{j}(X)$ , and since the sets  $\mathsf{zeros}(w_{j})$  are pairwise disjoint and thus  $z_{\ell} \notin \mathsf{zeros}(w_{j})$  for every  $j \neq \ell$ , we must have that  $(X - z_{\ell})^{t_{\ell}}$  divides  $u_{\ell}$  and thus  $\mathsf{mult}(u_{\ell}, z_{\ell}) \geq t_{\ell}$ .

{9}------------------------------------------------

We restate Lemma 3.1 as a protocol for the following language.

**Definition 3.2.** Let  $\mathbb{F}$  be a field and let  $(w_i)_{i \in [m]}$  be a list of polynomials such that the sets  $(\mathsf{zeros}(w_i))_{i \in [m]}$  are pairwise disjoint. We define the following language:

$$\mathsf{Mult}_{\mathbb{F}}[w_1,\ldots,w_m] \coloneqq \left\{ ((d_i,u_i))_{i \in [m]} \middle| \begin{array}{l} \forall \, i \in [m] : \\ u_i \in \mathbb{F}^{< d_i}[X] \ \land \ \mathsf{zmult}(w_i) \sqsubseteq \mathsf{zmult}(u_i) \end{array} \right\} \ .$$

The construction follows almost immediately.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Construction 3.3. Fix polynomials  $(w_1, \ldots, w_m)$  such that  $w_i \in \mathbb{F}^{\langle e_i}[X]$  and the sets  $(\mathsf{zeros}(w_i))_{i \in [m]}$  are pairwise disjoint. Given input  $((d_i, u_i))_{i \in [m]}$ , the protocol proceeds as follows:

1. Prover sends a polynomial  $q \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq k}[X]$  where  $k \coloneqq \max\{d_i - e_i\}$ . In the honest case

$$q(X) := \sum_{i \in [m]} \frac{u_i(X)}{w_i(X)} .$$

2. Verifier samples a random  $z \leftarrow \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{Z}$  where  $\mathcal{Z} := \bigcup_{i \in [m]} \mathsf{zeros}(w_i)$  and accepts if and only if:

$$q(z) = \sum_{i \in [m]} \frac{u_i(z)}{w_i(z)} .$$

Prover and verifier running times. We analyze the running times of the prover and verifier.

• Prover running time. For  $i \in [m]$ , the prover computes the quotients  $q_i(X) = u_i(X)/w_i(X)$ . This can be done in  $O(d_i \cdot e_i)$  field operations via Horner's method for synthetic division [BFST03] or in  $O(d_i \cdot \log d_i + e_i \cdot \log e_i)$  field operations via fast Fourier transformations. Obtaining the final quotient can then be done in  $O(m \cdot k)$  field operations. The total prover runtime is then

$$O\left(m \cdot k + \sum_{i \in [m]} \min\{d_i \cdot e_i, d_i \log d_i + e_i \log e_i\}\right).$$

- Verifier running time. The verifier evaluates  $u_1, \ldots, u_m, w_1, \ldots, w_m$  and q at a single point and performs m divisions and 3m additions. Using the batch inversion method of [Mon87], the divisions can be replaced with 3(m-1) multiplications and a single inversion. In total we get:
  - Evaluations: 2m
  - Additions: 3m
  - Multiplications: 3m
  - Inversions: 1

Completeness and soundness. We prove completeness and soundness of Construction 3.3.

**Lemma 3.4.** Construction 3.3 has perfect completeness.

Proof. Fix  $((d_i, u_i))_{i \in [m]} \in \mathsf{Mult}_{\mathbb{F}}[w_1, \dots, w_m]$ . Since  $\mathsf{zmult}(w_i) \sqsubseteq \mathsf{zmult}(u_i)$ ,  $u_i/w_i$  is a polynomial of degree  $d_i - e_i \le k$ . Then,  $q = \sum_{i \in [m]} u_i/w_i$  is indeed a polynomial of degree  $\le k$ , and thus the verifier will always accept.

{10}------------------------------------------------

Lemma 3.5. [Construction 3.3](#page-9-0) has soundness error at most

$$\frac{k+s+1}{|\mathbb{F}|-|\mathcal{Z}|} ,$$

where k,(ei)i∈[m] , Z are as is in the construction and s := P i ei.

Proof. Fix ((d<sup>i</sup> , ui))i∈[m] ∈/ MultF[w1, . . . , wm], let q be the prover's message, and define f : F\Z → F as

$$f(z) := \sum_{i \in [m]} \frac{u_i(z)}{w_i(z)}$$

.

.

Observe that

$$\Pr\left[\text{Verifier accepts}\right] = 1 - \Delta\left(f, q\right) \le 1 - \Delta\left(f, \mathbb{F}^{\le k}[X]\right)$$

Since (1) u<sup>i</sup> ∈ F ≤d<sup>i</sup> [X], (2) w<sup>i</sup> ∈ F ≤e<sup>i</sup> [X], (3) zeros(wi)i∈[m] are pairwise disjoint, by applying [Lemma 3.1](#page-8-1) we have ∆ f, F ≤k [X] ≥ 1 − k+s+1 <sup>|</sup>F|−|Z| , and so

$$\Pr\left[\text{Verifier accepts}\right] \le \frac{k+s+1}{|\mathbb{F}| - |\mathcal{Z}|} \ .$$

{11}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-11-0"></span>Protocols for batch polynomial evaluation 4

We use Lemma 3.1 to construct interactive proofs for batch-evaluation of univariate polynomials. In fact, in all of our protocols, the prover sends a single message, which represents a polynomial. The verifier only utilizes this polynomial by evaluating it on a point. Thus, we describe them as PIOPs. Moving to the standard interactive proof model can be done trivially by the prover explicitly sending the polynomials as coefficients, and the verifier can now evaluate them directly.

For the reader's convenience, we have added a description of the verifier's running times in the IP model in the efficiency analysis section of each protocol.

We begin by defining the languages for which we construct PIOPs:

**Definition 4.1.** Let  $\mathbb{F}$  be a field. We define the following languages.

• Single polynomial.

$$\mathsf{PolyEval}_{\mathbb{F}} := \left\{ (\mathcal{S}, d, p, (b_x)_{x \in \mathcal{S}}) \, \middle| \begin{array}{l} \mathcal{S} \subseteq \mathbb{F}, \; p \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq d}[X] \\ \forall x \in \mathcal{S} \colon b_x \in \mathbb{F} \; \land \; p(x) = b_x \end{array} \right\} \; .$$

• Multiple polynomials.

$$\mathsf{MultPolyEval}_{\mathbb{F}} := \left\{ \left( \begin{array}{c} \mathcal{S}, \\ \{(d_{x,i}, p_{x,i}, b_{x,i})\}_{x \in \mathcal{S}, i \in [n_x]} \end{array} \right) \left| \begin{array}{c} \mathcal{S} \subseteq \mathbb{F} \\ \forall x \in \mathcal{S}, i \in [n_x] : \left( \begin{array}{c} p_{x,i} \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq d_{x,i}}[X], \ b_{x,i} \in \mathbb{F} \\ p_{x,i}(x) = b_{x,i} \end{array} \right) \end{array} \right. \right.$$

We can now state our theorems: an MA protocol for PolyEval<sub> $\mathbb{F}$ </sub> and AMA protocol for MultPolyEval<sub> $\mathbb{F}$ </sub>.

<span id="page-11-1"></span>**Theorem 4.2.** Given any field  $\mathbb{F}$ , there is an MA PIOP for PolyEval<sub> $\mathbb{F}$ </sub> with the following properties.

- Soundness error: |S|+d | |F|-|S|.
  Polynomials sent: one polynomial of degree d 1.
- Prover efficiency:  $O(d \cdot |S|)$  field operations.
- Verifier randomness:  $O(\log |\mathbb{F}|)$  bits.
- Verifier efficiency: One evaluation of p and of the polynomial sent by the prover,  $3|\mathcal{S}|$  field additions and multiplications, and one field inversion.

<span id="page-11-2"></span>**Theorem 4.3.** Given any field  $\mathbb{F}$ , there is an AMA PIOP for MultPolyEval<sub> $\mathbb{F}$ </sub> with the following properties.

- Round-by-round soundness error:  $\left(\frac{\max_{x \in \mathcal{S}} n_x 1}{|\mathbb{F}|}, \frac{|\mathcal{S}| + d}{|\mathbb{F}| |\mathcal{S}|}\right)$  where  $d \coloneqq \max_{x \in \mathcal{S}, i \in [n_x]} d_{x,i}$ .
- Prover message length: d field elements.
- Prover efficiency:  $O(d \cdot |\mathcal{S}| + \sum_{s \in \mathcal{S}, i \in [n_x]} d_{x,i})$  field operations.
- Verifier randomness:  $O(\log |\mathbb{F}|)$  bits.
- Verifier efficiency: One evaluation of each  $p_{x,i}$  (all at the same point) and of the polynomial sent by the prover, and, additionally, 4n additions, 5n multiplications, and a single inversion (where  $n \coloneqq \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} n_x$ ).

{12}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-12-0"></span>4.1 Proof of [Theorem 4.2](#page-11-1)

Construction 4.4. Given input (S, d, p,(bx)x∈S), the protocol proceeds as follows:

1. Prover sends a polynomial q ∈ F ≤d−1 [X]. In the honest case

$$q(X) := \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{p(X) - b_x}{X - x}$$

.

2. Verifier samples a random z ← F \ S and accepts if and only if:

$$q(z) = \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{p(z) - b_x}{z - x} .$$

Prover and verifier running times. We analyze the running times of the prover and verifier.

- Prover running time. The prover computes the quotients qx(X) = (p(X) − bx)/(X − x) for every x ∈ S, which can be done in O(d) field operations per quotient via Horner's method for synthetic division [\[BFST03\]](#page-23-3). Obtaining q then entails summing these |S| quotients, for a total of O(d · |S|) field operations.
- Verifier running time. The verifier evaluates p and q at a single point and performs |S| divisions and 3|S| additions. Using Montgomery's batch inversion method [\[Mon87\]](#page-24-14), the divisions can be replaced with 3(|S| − 1) multiplications and a single inversion. In total we get:

– Evaluations: 2

– Additions: 3|S|

– Multiplications: 3|S|

– Inversions: 1

Alternatively, if the polynomials are given explicitly by their coefficients, then evaluating them can be done using Horner's method (degree many multiplications and additions) [\[BFST03\]](#page-23-3). In this case, the total number of operations that the verifier performs is:

– Additions: d + d − 1 + 3|S| ≤ 2d + 3|S|

– Multiplications: d + d − 1 + 3(|S| − 1) ≤ 2d + 3|S|

– Inversions: 1

Completeness. Fix (S, d, p,(bx)x∈S) ∈ PolyEval<sup>F</sup> . We show that the verifier always accepts when interacting with the honest prover. More specifically, we show that the polynomial

$$q(X) := \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{p(X) - b_x}{X - x} ,$$

as defined in the protocol has degree smaller than d − 1, and so the honest prover can send it to the verifier. Given that the polynomial P x∈S p(X)−b<sup>x</sup> X−x is sent to the verifier, its check will pass with probability 1.

Fix x ∈ S. Recall that p(x) = bx, and so p ∈ F ≤d [X] can be rewritten as

$$p(X) = (X - x) \cdot q_x(X) + b_x ,$$

{13}------------------------------------------------

where  $q_x \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]$ . Thus,

$$q(X) = \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{p(X) - b_x}{X - x} = \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{((X - x) \cdot q_x(X) + b_x) - b_x}{X - x} = \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} q_x(X) ,$$

and so  $deg(q) = max\{deg(q_x)\} \le d - 1$ .

**Soundness.** Fix  $(S, d, p, (b_x)_{x \in S}) \notin \mathsf{PolyEval}_{\mathbb{F}}$ , let q be the prover's message, and define  $f : \mathbb{F} \setminus S \to \mathbb{F}$  as

$$f(z) := \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{p(z) - b_x}{z - x}$$
.

Observe that

$$\Pr\left[\text{Verifier accepts}\right] = 1 - \Delta\left(f, q\right) \le 1 - \Delta\left(f, \mathbb{F}^{\le d-1}[X]\right) .$$

For  $x \in \mathcal{S}$  let  $u_x(X) := p(X) - b_x$  and  $w_x(X) := X - x$ . Since  $(\mathcal{S}, p, (b_x)_{x \in \mathcal{S}}) \notin \mathsf{PolyEval}_{\mathbb{F}}$ , there exists x' so that  $p(x') \neq b_{x'}$ . Observe that  $(1) \ u_x \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq d}[X], \ (2) \ w_x \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq 1}[X], \ (3) \ \mathsf{zeros}(w_x) = \{x\}$  are pairwise distinct, and  $(4) \ \mathsf{zeros}(w_{x'}) \not\subseteq \mathsf{zeros}(u_{x'})$ .

By applying Lemma 3.1 we have  $\Delta\left(f, \mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]\right) \geq 1 - \frac{|\mathcal{S}| + d}{|\mathbb{F}| - |\mathcal{S}|}$ , and so

$$\Pr[\text{Verifier accepts}] \le \frac{|\mathcal{S}| + d}{|\mathbb{F}| - |\mathcal{S}|}$$
.

#### <span id="page-13-0"></span>4.2 Proof of Theorem 4.3

Construction 4.5. Fix inputs S, and  $\{(d_{x,i}, p_{x,i}, b_{x,i})\}_{x \in S, i \in [n_x]}$  for MultPolyEval<sub> $\mathbb{F}$ </sub>.

- 1. Verifier samples  $r \leftarrow \mathbb{F}$  and sends it to the prover.
- 2. Prover sends a polynomial  $q \in \mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]$  where  $d := \max_{x \in \mathcal{S}, i \in [n_x]} d_{x,i}$ . In the honest case, q defined as follows:

$$q(X) := \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{\sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (p_{x,i}(X) - b_{x,i})}{X - x} .$$

3. Verifier samples a random  $z \leftarrow \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{S}$  and accepts if and only if:

$$q(z) = \sum_{x \in S} \frac{\sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (p_{x,i}(z) - b_{x,i})}{z - x} .$$

**Prover and verifier running times.** We analyze the prover and verifier running times:

• Prover running time. For  $x \in \mathcal{S}$  the prover computes the polynomial  $t_x(X) = \sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (p_{x,i}(X) - b_{x,i})$  in  $O(\sum_{s \in \mathcal{S}, i \in [n_x]} d_{x,i})$  field operations. For  $x \in \mathcal{S}$ , the prover then computes  $q_x(X) = t_x(X)/(X-x)$  in O(d) operations per quotient again via Horner's rule for division [BFST03]. Finally, computing q requires  $O(|\mathcal{S}| \cdot d)$  field operations. In total, this results in  $O(|\mathcal{S}| \cdot d + \sum_{s \in \mathcal{S}, i \in [n_x]} d_{x,i})$  field operations.

{14}------------------------------------------------

• Verifier running time. The verifier evaluates each polynomial {px,i}x∈S, i∈[nx] once (note that if a polynomial appears twice in the list of polynomials, it is still evaluated only once), and evaluates q once. It then computes the powers r <sup>i</sup> using at most n multiplications (recall that n = P <sup>x</sup>∈S nx). It then performs |S| divisions, n multiplications, and 2n + 2|S| additions. Using Montgomery's batch inversion method [\[Mon87\]](#page-24-14), the divisions can be replaced with 3(|S|−1) multiplications and a single inversion. In total we get:

– Evaluations: n + 1

– Additions: 2n + 2|S| ≤ 4n

– Multiplications: 2n + 3|S| ≤ 5n

– Inversions: 1

Alternatively, if the polynomials are given explicitly by their coefficients, then evaluating them can be done using Horner's method (degree many multiplications and additions) [\[BFST03\]](#page-23-3). In this case, the total number of operations that the verifier performs is:

– Additions: dn + d − 1 + 2n + 2|S| ≤ (n + 1)d + 4n

– Multiplications: dn + d − 1 + 2n + 3(|S| − 1) ≤ (n + 1)d + 5n

– Inversions: 1

Completeness. Fix (S,(dx,i, px,i, bx,i)x∈S,i∈[nx] ) ∈ MultPolyEvalF . We show that for every r the polynomial

$$q(X) := \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{\sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (p_{x,i}(X) - b_{x,i})}{X - x} ,$$

as defined in the protocol has degree bounded by d−1, and so can be sent by the prover. Once this is established, then by definition the verifier will accept with probability 1.

For every x ∈ S and px,i ∈ F <sup>≤</sup>dx,i [X], we have that px,i(x) = bx,i. Thus, px,i can be rewritten as

$$p_{x,i}(X) := (X - x) \cdot q_{x,i}(X) + b_{x,i} ,$$

where qx,i ∈ F ≤dx,i−1 [X]. Therefore, for every r ∈ F we can rewrite

$$q(X) = \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{\sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (p_{x,i}(X) - b_{x,i})}{X - x}$$

$$= \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{\sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (((X - x) \cdot q_{x,i}(X) + b_{x,i}) - b_{x,i})}{X - x}$$

$$= \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot q_{x,i}(X) .$$

Therefore deg(q) = max{deg(qx,i)} ≤ d − 1.

Round-by-round soundness. We analyze the round-by-round soundness of our protocol. Before describing the state function, we prove a useful claim:

<span id="page-14-0"></span>Claim 4.6. Fix S ⊆ F, x ∈ S, and for i ∈ [n], px,i ∈ F <sup>≤</sup>dx,i [X] and bx,i ∈ F. Set d := maxx,i dx,i and define the function f<sup>r</sup> : F \ S → F as follows

$$f_r(X) = \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{\sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (p_{x,i}(X) - b_{x,i})}{X - x}$$
.

{15}------------------------------------------------

If for some  $y \in \mathcal{S}$  and  $i \in [n_y]$  we have that  $p_{y,i}(y) \neq b_{y,i}$  then

$$\Pr\left[\Delta(f_r, \mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]) \leq 1 - \frac{|\mathcal{S}| + d}{|\mathbb{F}| - |\mathcal{S}|}\right] \leq \frac{\max_{x \in \mathcal{S}} n_x - 1}{|\mathbb{F}|}.$$

*Proof.* Let  $y \in \mathcal{S}$  and  $i \in [n_y]$  be such that  $p_{y,i}(y) \neq b_{y,i}$ . Then  $g_y(X) := \sum_{i \in [n_y]} X^{i-1} \cdot (p_{y,i}(y) - b_{y,i})$  is not the zero polynomial. Noting that  $\deg(g_y) \leq n_y - 1$ , we have that

$$\Pr_{r \leftarrow \mathbb{F}} \left[ g_y(r) = 0 \right] \le \frac{n_y - 1}{|\mathbb{F}|} .$$

For  $x \in \mathcal{S}$  and  $r \in \mathbb{F}$  let  $u_x^{(r)}(X) := \sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (p_{x,i}(X) - b_{x,i})$  and observe that  $g_y(r) = u_y^{(r)}(y)$ . Letting  $w_x(X) := X - x$ , notice that  $\mathsf{zeros}(w_x) = \{x\}$  and so  $\{\mathsf{zeros}(w_x)\}_{x \in \mathcal{S}}$  are pairwise disjoint. Since  $f_r(X) = \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} u_x^{(r)}(X)/w_x(X)$ , by Lemma 3.1 we have that if the conditions of Claim 4.6 hold then it must be the case that  $\mathsf{zeros}(w_x) \subseteq \mathsf{zeros}(u_x^{(r)})$  for every  $x \in \mathcal{S}$  and thus the condition must in particular hold for x = y i.e.  $\{y\} = \mathsf{zeros}(w_y) \subseteq \mathsf{zeros}(u_y^{(r)})$ . In other words, this can only happen if  $g_y(r) = u_y^{(r)}(y) = 0$ . Then,

$$\Pr_{r \leftarrow \mathbb{F}} \left[ \Delta(f_r, \mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]) \leq 1 - \frac{|\mathcal{S}| + d}{|\mathbb{F}| - |\mathcal{S}|} \right] = \Pr_{r \leftarrow \mathbb{F}} \left[ g_y(r) = 0 \right] \leq \frac{n_y - 1}{|\mathbb{F}|} \leq \max_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{n_x - 1}{|\mathbb{F}|} .$$

Lemma 4.7. The protocol has round-by-round soundness error

$$(\varepsilon^{\text{rand}}, \varepsilon^{\text{prox}}) = \left(\frac{\max_{x \in \mathcal{S}} n_x - 1}{|\mathbb{F}|}, \frac{|\mathcal{S}| + d}{|\mathbb{F}| - |\mathcal{S}|}\right).$$

*Proof.* We define a state function State, and bound each term individually. Below, we denote the input to the protocol by  $\mathbf{x} \coloneqq \left( \mathcal{S}, \{(d_{x,i}, p_{x,i}, b_{x,i})\}_{x \in \mathcal{S}, i \in [n_x]} \right)$ .

- 0. Initial state. We set  $\mathsf{State}(\mathtt{x},\emptyset) = 1$  if and only if  $\mathtt{x} \in \mathsf{MultPolyEval}_{\mathbb{F}}$ .
- 1. Bounding  $\varepsilon^{\mathsf{rand}}$ . At this stage, tr is empty, and the verifier sends  $r \leftarrow \mathbb{F}$ .
  - State function. Define the function  $f_r : \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{S} \to \mathbb{F}$  as follows

$$f_r(X) := \sum_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{\sum_{i \in [n_x]} r^{i-1} \cdot (p_{x,i}(X) - b_{x,i})}{X - x}$$
.

We set  $\mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x}, r) = 1$  if and only if

$$\Delta(f_r, \mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]) \leq 1 - \frac{|\mathcal{S}| + d}{|\mathbb{F}| - |\mathcal{S}|}$$
.

• Bounding the error. Suppose that  $\mathsf{State}(x,\emptyset) = 0$ . This implies that there exist  $x \in \mathcal{S}$  and  $i \in [n_x]$  with  $p_{x,i}(x) \neq b_{x,i}$ . Then, we are exactly in the setting of Claim 4.6 and

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x},r) = 1 \middle| \mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x},\emptyset) = 0 \right] = \Pr\left[\Delta(f_r, \mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]) \leq 1 - \frac{|\mathcal{S}| + d}{|\mathbb{F}| - |\mathcal{S}|} \middle| \mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x},\emptyset) = 0 \right]$$
$$\leq \max_{x \in \mathcal{S}} \frac{n_x - 1}{|\mathbb{F}|} .$$

{16}------------------------------------------------

- 2. Bounding  $\varepsilon^{\text{prox}}$ . At this stage tr := (r, q) and the verifier sends  $z \leftarrow \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{S}$ .
  - State function. We set  $\mathsf{State}(x,\mathsf{tr}||z) = 1$  if and only if the verifier accepts given x,  $\mathsf{tr}$ , and z, i.e. if  $q(z) = f_r(z)$ .
  - Bounding the error. Suppose that  $\mathsf{State}(\mathbbm{x},\mathsf{tr}) = 0$ . Then  $\Delta(f_r,q) \geq \Delta(f_r,\mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]) > 1 \frac{|\mathcal{S}|+d}{|\mathbb{F}|-|\mathcal{S}|}$ , and thus the probability that  $f_r(z) = q(z)$  for  $z \leftarrow \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{S}$  is at most  $\frac{|\mathcal{S}|+d}{|\mathbb{F}|-|\mathcal{S}|}$ .

{17}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-17-0"></span>5 Query reduction for PIOPs

We describe a compiler that, using [Theorem 4.3,](#page-11-2) transforms a PIOP into a PIOP where each proof polynomial is queried exactly once.

<span id="page-17-1"></span>Theorem 5.1. Given a k-round PIOP Π for a relation R with maximal degree d and total query complexity q we construct a k + 1 PIOP Π′ for R with the following properties:

- The prover in Π′ sends exactly the same messages as Π with the addition of q field elements and a single polynomial of degree d − 1.
- Every polynomial sent by the prover in Π′ is queries exactly once, all on the same field element.

Remark 5.2. For generality, we write the protocol in a way that enables the following generalizations of the above theorem:

- Polynomial IOPs of proximity. The verifier is given oracle access to part of its input y. We further note that if the implicit input contains polynomials with evaluation access, then they can also be batched into the batch evaluation protocol (these can be considered as an initial prover message).
- Polynomial IOP for Relations. The IOP is for a relation R = {(x, w)} and the honest prover is given the witness w (in a proof of proximity we would consider R = {(x, y), w}). In many use-cases this allows the honest prover to be more efficient.
- Round-by-round knowledge. We show that if the original PIOP has round-by-round knowledge with an extractor E, then the new IOP also has round-by-round knowledge soundness. See [\[CY24\]](#page-24-15) for formal definitions of all of the above generalizations.

Proof. We detail the transformation and then prove its properties. While our transformation uses [Theorem 4.3](#page-11-2) directly, for convenience and minor optimizations we describe below the transformation with [Theorem 4.3](#page-11-2) explicitly written out. Let Π = (P, V) we begin by giving notation to the parameters of Π:

- In round i ∈ [k], the prover sends n<sup>i</sup> polynomials, where for j ∈ [n<sup>i</sup> ] the j-th polynomial fi,j has degree di,j . Let qi,j be the number of queries made by the verifier to fi,j .
- In round i, the verifier sends r<sup>i</sup> bits of randomness.
- Let t be the maximal number of polynomials that are evaluated on the same point, and m be the maximal number of distinct points evaluated on any of the polynomials sent.
- Π has round-by-round knowledge soundness error (ε1, . . . , εk) with state function Statepoly, extractor E, and extraction time et.
- For simplicity, the protocol described below does not explicitly state non-oracle messages sent by the prover, but these are straightforward to add. l denotes the total number of such field elements sent.

Construction 5.3. We construct a PIOP for R given a PIOP (P, V) for R.

- 0. Inputs: The honest prover receives as input (x, y, w) ∈ R, and the verifier receives x as an explicit input and y as an oracle input.
- 1. PIOP interaction phase: For i = 1, . . . , k:
  - (a) PIOP prover message: The prover computes and sends fi,1, . . . , fi,n<sup>i</sup> where fi,j ∈ F <sup>≤</sup>di,j [X]. In the honest case (fi,1, . . . , fi,n<sup>i</sup> ) := P(x, y, w, α1, . . . , αi−1).

{18}------------------------------------------------

(b) PIOP verifier message: The verifier samples and send α<sup>i</sup> ← {0, 1} ri .

#### 2. Batching interaction phase:

(a) Send query results: The prover sends an array of field elements (Ai,j )i∈[k],j∈[ni] with |Ai,j | = qi,j . In the honest case, the prover simulates the execution of

$$\mathbf{V}^{\mathbb{Y},(f_{i,j})_{i\in[k],j\in[n_i]}}(\mathbb{X},\alpha_1,\ldots,\alpha_k)$$
.

For every i ∈ [k] and j ∈ [n<sup>i</sup> ] set:

- Qi,j ⊆ F be the set of queries made by V to fi,j .
- ϕi,j : [qi,j ] → Qi,j be the mapping where ϕi,j (k) returns the k-th query made to fi,j ; Then, for k ∈ [qi,j ], the prover sets Ai,j [k] := fi,j (ϕi,j (k)).
- (b) Sample combination randomness: the verifier sends randomness r ← F.
- (c) Send interpolation polynomial: the prover sends a polynomial q ∈ F ≤d−1 [X] where d := maxi,j di,j . In the honest case,

<span id="page-18-0"></span>
$$q(X) := \sum_{q \in \mathcal{Q}} \frac{\sum_{k \in [t_q]} r^{k-1} \cdot \left( f_{\psi_q(k)}(X) - f_{\psi_q(k)}(q) \right)}{X - q} . \tag{1}$$

where:

- Q = S i,j Qi,j is the set of all queries made by the verifier, and
- For q ∈ Q: S<sup>q</sup> := {(i, j) : q ∈ Qi,j}, t<sup>q</sup> := |Sq|, and ψ<sup>q</sup> : [tq] → S<sup>q</sup> is an arbitrary ordering of Sq.
- (d) Choose proximity randomness: the verifier determines Q as before, samples a random z ← F \ Q and sends it to the prover.

#### 3. Verifier decision phase:

- (a) PIOP decision: Check that V y,(fi,j )i∈[k],j∈[ni ](x, α1, . . . , αk) = 1, where the k-th query to fi,j is answered by Ai,j [k] and queries to y are answered by querying y directly (reject if V rejects).
- (b) Batching decision: Letting ψ<sup>q</sup> be as before, check that

$$q(z) = \sum_{q \in \mathcal{Q}} \frac{\sum_{k \in [t_q]} r^{k-1} \cdot \left( f_{\psi_q(k)}(z) - A_{\psi_q(k)}[\phi^{-1}(q)] \right)}{z - q} ,$$

querying q and (fi,j )i,j accordingly.

Complexity measures. The new PIOP has the following parameters:

- Rounds. k + 1.
- Polynomials sent. In round i ∈ [k] the prover sends n<sup>i</sup> polynomials, where, for j ∈ [n<sup>i</sup> ], the function has degree di,j . In round k + 1, the prover sends a single polynomial of degree d − 1.

{19}------------------------------------------------

- Non-oracle messages. The prover sends lpoly field elements in the interaction of Π, and q additional field elements.
- Evaluation queries. The verifier makes one evaluation query to each of the 1 + P <sup>i</sup>∈[k] n<sup>i</sup> polynomials sent in the protocol.

Round-by-round soundness. We prove that Π′ has round-by-round soundness error

$$(\varepsilon_1, \dots, \varepsilon_k, \varepsilon_{\text{com}}, \varepsilon_{\text{prx}}) = \left(\varepsilon_1, \dots, \varepsilon_k, \frac{t-1}{|\mathbb{F}|}, \frac{d+m}{|\mathbb{F}|-m}\right) ,$$

with extraction time O(et).

We define a state function State, and bound each term individually.

- 0. State function for empty transcript We set State(x, y, ∅) = Statepoly(x, y, ∅).
- 1. PIOP verifier message: At this point of the interaction, the transcript has the form

$$\mathsf{tr} = \left( \begin{array}{c} ((f_{\ell,1}, \dots, f_{\ell,m_{\ell}}), \alpha_{\ell})_{\ell < i} \\ (f_{i,1}, \dots, f_{i,m_{i}}), \end{array} \right) \ .$$

The verifier chooses α<sup>i</sup> ← {0, 1} ri .

- State function: We set State(x, y,tr∥αi) = Statepoly(x, y,tr∥αi).
- Bounding the error: Suppose that

$$\Pr[\mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, \mathsf{tr} || \alpha_i) = 1 | \mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, \mathsf{tr}) = 0] > \varepsilon_i$$

Then, Pr[Statepoly(x, y,tr∥αi) = 1|Statepoly(x, y,tr) = 0] > ε<sup>i</sup> and by round-by-round knowledge soundness of Π we have (x, y, E(x, y,tr)) ∈ R.

2. Combination randomness: At this point of the interaction, the transcript has the form

$$\operatorname{tr} = \begin{pmatrix} ((f_{i,1}, \dots, f_{i,m_i}), \alpha_i)_{i \leq \mathbf{k}} \\ (A_{i,j})_{i \in [\mathbf{k}], j \in [m_i]} \end{pmatrix}$$

.

.

.

The verifier chooses r ← F.

- State function: We set State(x, y,tr∥r) = 1 if both of the following hold:
  - (a) V accepts when given access to y and given query answers according to Ai,j .
  - (b) Letting h<sup>r</sup> be the right-hand side of [Equation 1,](#page-18-0)

$$\Delta(h_r, \mathbb{F}^{\leq d-1}[X]) \leq 1 - \frac{d+m}{|\mathbb{F}| - m}$$

• Bounding the error: We show that

$$\Pr[\mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x},\mathbf{y},\mathsf{tr}||r) = 1 | \mathsf{State}(\mathbf{x},\mathbf{y},\mathsf{tr}) = 0] \leq \frac{\max_{q \in \mathcal{Q}} t_q - 1}{|\mathbb{F}|} = \frac{t-1}{|\mathbb{F}|}$$

Since the probability is always bounded from above, we do not require the extractor to be able to extract. Suppose that State(x, y,tr) = Statepoly(x, y,tr) = 0. Then, if it holds that for every i ∈ k, j ∈ [n<sup>i</sup> ] and k ∈ [qi,j ] Ai,j [k] = fi,j (ϕi,j (k)) the V can never accept by the round-by-round knowledge soundness of Π, and we are done. Thus, there must exists a triple (i, j, k) such that Ai,j [k] ̸= fi,j (ϕi,j (k)), and we are left to bound the second item in this case. The claimed error follows then directly by applying [Claim 4.6.](#page-14-0)

{20}------------------------------------------------

3. Proximity randomness: At this point of the interaction, the transcript has the form

$$\operatorname{tr} = \begin{pmatrix} ((f_{i,1}, \dots, f_{i,m_i}), \alpha_i)_{i \leq k} \\ (A_{i,j})_{i \in [k], j \in [m_i]}, r, q \end{pmatrix} .$$

The verifier chooses  $z \leftarrow \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{Q}$ .

- State function: We set  $\mathsf{State}(\mathtt{x},\mathtt{y},\mathsf{tr}||r)=1$  if both of the following hold:
  - (a) **V** accepts when given access to y and given query answers according to  $A_{i,j}$ .
  - (b)  $q(z) = f_r(z)$  where  $f_r$  is the right hand side of Equation 1 with r fixed.
- Bounding the error: Since the probability is always bounded from above, we do not require the extractor to be able to extract. Suppose that  $\mathsf{State}(x,y,\mathsf{tr})=0$ . Then, by definition,  $\Delta(f_r,q) \geq \Delta(f_r,\mathbb{F}^{\leq d}[X]) > 1 \frac{d+m}{|\mathbb{F}|-m}$ , and thus the probability that  $f_r(z) = q(z)$  for  $z \leftarrow \mathbb{F} \setminus \mathcal{Q}$  is at most  $\frac{d+m}{|\mathbb{F}|-m}$ .

{21}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-21-0"></span>6 Improving the verifier time of STIR

Our techniques can be used to improve the verifiers that use quotienting of polynomials. We discuss a concrete example: the STIR protocol [ACFY24]. Specifically, we show how to improve the STIR protocol so to that the verifier time matches that of the WHIR protocol [ACFY25] (which was designed specifically with verification time in mind).

Overview of STIR. The STIR protocol is an interactive oracle proof of proximity<sup>3</sup> for proving that a function  $f: \mathcal{L} \to \mathbb{F}$  is close to the Reed-Solomon code  $\mathsf{RS}[d,\mathcal{L}]$  (i.e., it is close in Hamming weight to the evaluation over  $\mathcal{L}$  of a degree d polynomial). Given a security parameter  $\lambda$  and a (small constant) "folding parameter" k > 2, the protocol consists of  $M = O(\log d)$  iterations where, in iteration i, the prover sends a function  $g_i$ , and the verifier has two degree  $t_i$  polynomials  $\mathsf{Ans}_i$  and  $V_i$  where  $t_i \approx \lambda/i$ . The verifier then virtually defines the function

$$f_i(X) \coloneqq \frac{g_i(X) - \mathsf{Ans}_i(X)}{V_i(X)}$$
.

The verifier then evaluates  $f_i$  on  $k \cdot t_{i+1}$  points (where  $t_{i+1} \approx \lambda/(i+1)$ ), which reduces to making  $k \cdot t_{i+1}$  queries to  $g_i$ , and evaluating  $\mathsf{Ans}_i$  and  $V_i$  on  $t_{i+1}$  points. It then uses the answers to generate  $\mathsf{Ans}_{i+1}$ ,  $V_{i+1}$ , and (in the final round) do a small number of efficient equality tests for final verification.

In [ACFY24], in order to evaluate  $\mathsf{Ans}_i$  and  $V_i$  on all points, the verifier performs roughly  $\Omega((t_i+kt_{i-1})\cdot\log^2(t_i+kt_{i-1}))=\Omega(kt_i\cdot\log^2(kt_i))$  field operations using the classical batch polynomial evaluation algorithm. In fact, in practice the hidden constants in the classical batch polynomial evaluation algorithm are large, and so it is more common to use Horner's method, which yields asymptotic running time  $\Omega(kt_i^2)$ . Thus, overall, the verifier complexity is  $\Omega\left(\sum_{i=1}^M kt_i \cdot \log^2(kt_i)\right)$ .

Improving verification time. Our proofs for batch polynomial evaluation facilitate the reduction of the STIR verifier complexity by utilizing the prover to compute  $\mathsf{Ans}_i$  and  $V_i$  much faster. Following the interaction phase, the prover derives the queries  $\mathcal{Q}_i$  that the verifier will make to  $f_i$  and sends to the verifier the points  $y_{i,x}$  and  $z_{i,x}$  where (in the honest case), for every  $x \in \mathcal{Q}_i$ , it holds that  $\mathsf{Ans}_i(x) = y_{i,x}$  and  $V_i(x) = z_{i,x}$ . The prover and verifier then engage in the batch polynomial evaluation protocol of Theorem 4.3 in order to prove that these are, indeed, the correct evaluations of the polynomials. Now that the verifier is convinced of the validity of these points, it can run the STIR verification procedure as if it had computed the evaluations independently.

Overall, the verifier performs  $O(k \cdot \sum_{i \in [M]} t_i)$  field operations, reducing the factors of  $\log^2(t_i + k \cdot t_{i+1})$ . This comes at a minor cost to prover communication as the prover must send an additional  $O(k \cdot \sum_{i \in [M]} t_i)$  field elements. We further note that this optimization is likely to be useful in the implementation of other protocols that utilize similar techniques, such as the ARC accumulation scheme [BMNW24].

Comparison with WHIR. This optimized protocol, which we refer to as STIR-SHAKE asymptotically matches the verifier complexity of the recently introduced WHIR [ACFY25] protocol. WHIR is also an interactive oracle proof of proximity for Reed-Solomon<sup>4</sup> which has a similar

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup>An interactive oracle proof of proximity is a generalization of an interactive proof, where the prover messages and the original input are oracles to which the verifier makes a small number of queries (rather than reading them in their entirety).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup>WHIR also introduces the ability to verify a more general class of codes called "constrained" Reed–Solomon codes, but we focus on testing proximity to Reed–Solomon codes in this comparison.

{22}------------------------------------------------

basic structure to STIR-SHAKE, and where the verifier has the same asymptotic complexity of  $O(\sum_{i=1}^{M} k \cdot t_i)$  field operations.

{23}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-23-0"></span>Acknowledgments

Gal Arnon is supported by the European Research Council (ERC) under the EU's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (Grant agreement No. 101019547), and Stellar Foundation Grant. Alessandro Chiesa and Giacomo Fenzi are supported in part by the Ethereum Foundation. Eylon Yogev is supported by the Israel Science Foundation (Grant No. 2302/22), European Research Union (ERC, CRYPTOPROOF, 101164375). Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or the European Research Council. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. This work was done in part while Gal Arnon and Giacomo Fenzi were visiting the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing, and Giacomo Fenzi was visiting Succinct.

## <span id="page-23-1"></span>References

<span id="page-23-2"></span>

| [ACFY24] | Gal Arnon, Alessandro Chiesa, Giacomo Fenzi, and Eylon Yogev. "STIR: Reed–Solomon       |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|          | Proximity Testing with Fewer Queries". In: Proceedings of the 44th Annual International |
|          | Cryptology Conference. CRYPTO '24. 2024, pp. 380–413.                                   |

- <span id="page-23-6"></span>[ACFY25] Gal Arnon, Alessandro Chiesa, Giacomo Fenzi, and Eylon Yogev. "WHIR: Reed–Solomon Proximity Testing with Super-Fast Verification". In: Proceedings of the 44th Annual International Conference on Theory and Application of Cryptographic Techniques. EURO-CRYPT '25. 2025.
- <span id="page-23-8"></span>[AFLN24] Martin R. Albrecht, Giacomo Fenzi, Oleksandra Lapiha, and Ngoc Khanh Nguyen. "SLAP: Succinct Lattice-Based Polynomial Commitments from Standard Assumptions". In: Proceedings of the 43rd Annual International Conference on Theory and Application of Cryptographic Techniques. EUROCRYPT '24. 2024, pp. 90–119.
- <span id="page-23-9"></span>[BDFG21] Dan Boneh, Justin Drake, Ben Fisch, and Ariel Gabizon. "Halo Infinite: Proof-Carrying Data from Additive Polynomial Commitments". In: Proceedings of the 41st Annual International Cryptology. CRYPTO '21. 2021, pp. 649–680.
- <span id="page-23-11"></span>[BDRNT25] Dan Boneh, Trisha Datta, Fernando Rex, Kamilla Nazirkhanova, and Alin Tomescu. "Dekart-Proof: Efficient Vector Range Proofs and Their Applications". In: IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. (2025), p. 1159.
- <span id="page-23-7"></span>[BFS20] Benedikt Bünz, Ben Fisch, and Alan Szepieniec. "Transparent SNARKs from DARK Compilers". In: Proceedings of the 39th Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques. EUROCRYPT '20. 2020, pp. 677–706.
- <span id="page-23-3"></span>[BFST03] C Sidney Burrus, James W Fox, Gary A Sitton, and Sven Treitel. "Horner's method for evaluating and deflating polynomials". In: DSP Software Notes, Rice University, Nov 26 (2003).
- <span id="page-23-5"></span>[BMNW24] Benedikt Bünz, Pratyush Mishra, Wilson Nguyen, and William Wang. "Arc: Accumulation for Reed-Solomon Codes". In: IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. (2024), p. 1731.
- <span id="page-23-4"></span>[But23] Vitalik Buterin. Barycentric Evaluation Trees for Polynomial Commitments. [https : / /](https://hackmd.io/@vbuterin/barycentric_evaluation) [hackmd.io/@vbuterin/barycentric\\_evaluation](https://hackmd.io/@vbuterin/barycentric_evaluation). Accessed: 2025-05-21. 2023.
- <span id="page-23-10"></span>[CBBZ23] Binyi Chen, Benedikt Bünz, Dan Boneh, and Zhenfei Zhang. "HyperPlonk: Plonk with Linear-Time Prover and High-Degree Custom Gates". In: Proceedings of the 42nd Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques. EUROCRYPT '23. 2023, pp. 499–530.

{24}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-24-7"></span>[CHMMVW20] Alessandro Chiesa, Yuncong Hu, Mary Maller, Pratyush Mishra, Noah Vesely, and Nicholas Ward. "Marlin: Preprocessing zkSNARKs with Universal and Updatable SRS". In: Proceedings of the 39th Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques. EUROCRYPT '20. 2020.
- <span id="page-24-12"></span>[CMNW24] Valerio Cini, Giulio Malavolta, Ngoc Khanh Nguyen, and Hoeteck Wee. "Polynomial Commitments from Lattices: Post-quantum Security, Fast Verification and Transparent Setup". In: Proceedings of the 44th Annual International Cryptology Conference. CRYPTO '24. 2024, pp. 207–242.
- <span id="page-24-15"></span>[CY24] Alessandro Chiesa and Eylon Yogev. "Building Cryptographic Proofs from Hash Functions". In: URL: https://github. com/hash-based-snargs-book (2024).
- <span id="page-24-10"></span>[FMN24] Giacomo Fenzi, Hossein Moghaddas, and Ngoc Khanh Nguyen. "Lattice-Based Polynomial Commitments: Towards Asymptotic and Concrete Efficiency". In: J. Cryptol. 37.3 (2024), p. 31.
- <span id="page-24-6"></span>[Fid72] Charles M. Fiduccia. "Polynomial evaluation via the division algorithm the fast Fourier transform revisited". In: Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing. STOC '72. Denver, Colorado, USA, 1972, 88–93.
- <span id="page-24-5"></span>[GG13] Joachim von zur Gathen and Jürgen Gerhard. Modern Computer Algebra (3. ed.) Cambridge University Press, 2013.
- <span id="page-24-1"></span>[GKR15] Shafi Goldwasser, Yael Tauman Kalai, and Guy N. Rothblum. "Delegating Computation: Interactive Proofs for Muggles". In: Journal of the ACM 62.4 (2015), 27:1–27:64.
- <span id="page-24-2"></span>[GR17] Oded Goldreich and Guy N. Rothblum. Simple doubly-efficient interactive proof systems for locally-characterizable sets. ECCC TR17-018. 2017.
- <span id="page-24-3"></span>[GR18] Oded Goldreich and Guy N. Rothblum. "Counting t-Cliques: Worst-Case to Average-Case Reductions and Direct Interactive Proof Systems". In: Proceedings of the 59th Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science. FOCS '18. 2018, pp. 77–88.
- <span id="page-24-8"></span>[KZG10] Aniket Kate, Gregory M. Zaverucha, and Ian Goldberg. "Constant-Size Commitments to Polynomials and Their Applications". In: Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security. ASIACRYPT '10. 2010, pp. 177–194.
- <span id="page-24-0"></span>[LFKN92] Carsten Lund, Lance Fortnow, Howard J. Karloff, and Noam Nisan. "Algebraic Methods for Interactive Proof Systems". In: Journal of the ACM 39.4 (1992), pp. 859–868.
- <span id="page-24-14"></span>[Mon87] Peter L Montgomery. "Speeding the Pollard and elliptic curve methods of factorization". In: Mathematics of computation 48.177 (1987), pp. 243–264.
- <span id="page-24-11"></span>[NS24] Ngoc Khanh Nguyen and Gregor Seiler. "Greyhound: Fast Polynomial Commitments from Lattices". In: Proceedings of the 44th Annual International Cryptology Conference. CRYPTO '24. 2024, pp. 243–275.
- <span id="page-24-9"></span>[PST13] Charalampos Papamanthou, Elaine Shi, and Roberto Tamassia. "Signatures of Correct Computation". In: Proceedings of the 10th Theory of Cryptography Conference. TCC '13. 2013, pp. 222–242.
- <span id="page-24-4"></span>[RR20] Noga Ron-Zewi and Ron Rothblum. "Local Proofs Approaching the Witness Length". In: Proceedings of the 61st Annual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science. FOCS '20. 2020, pp. 846–857.
- <span id="page-24-13"></span>[RR22] Noga Ron-Zewi and Ron D. Rothblum. "Proving as Fast as Computing: Succinct Arguments with Constant Prover Overhead". In: Proceedings of the 54th ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing. STOC '22. 2022, pp. 1353–1363.

{25}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-25-2"></span>

| [RRR16] | Omer Reingold, Ron Rothblum, and Guy Rothblum. "Constant-Round Interactive Proofs    |
|---------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|         | for Delegating Computation". In: Proceedings of the 48th ACM Symposium on the Theory |
|         | of Computing. STOC '16. 2016, pp. 49–62.                                             |

<span id="page-25-0"></span>[Sha92] Adi Shamir. "IP = PSPACE". In: Journal of the ACM 39.4 (1992), pp. 869–877.

<span id="page-25-1"></span>[Tre04] Lloyd N. Trefethen. "Barycentric Lagrange Interpolation". In: SIAM Review 46.3 (2004), pp. 501–517.