

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Local XOR Unification: Definitions, Algorithms and Application to Cryptography

Hai Lin<sup>1</sup> and Christopher Lynch<sup>2</sup>

- <sup>1</sup> Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY, U.S.A. hlin@clarkson.edu <sup>2</sup> Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY, U.S.A.
  - clynch@clarkson.edu

#### Abstract

Unification techniques have been proven to be useful for formal analysis of cryptographic systems. In this paper, we introduce a new unification problem called local XOR unification, motivated by formal analysis of security of modes of operation. The goal in local XOR unification is to find a substitution making two terms equivalent modulo the theory of exclusive-or, but each variable is only allowed to be mapped to a term from a given set of terms. We present two versions of the local XOR unification problem, and give algorithms to solve them, proving soundness, completeness and termination.

# 1 Introduction

In logic, unification is an algorithmic process of solving equations between symbolic expressions. The basic form of unification is syntactic unification, where both sides of each equation must be made exactly the same under some substitution. In equational unification, both sides of each equation can be the same under some substitution, modulo some background equational theory.

Equational unification has a number of successful applications in cryptography protocol verification [\[1,](#page-15-0) [2,](#page-15-1) [3\]](#page-15-2). This work is motivated by symbolic reasoning of cryptographic modes of operation, and it is closely related to [\[7\]](#page-15-3). The idea in [\[7\]](#page-15-3) is that a block of message can be modelled symbolically as a term. In order to break a mode of operation, an adversary needs to solve some unification problem. The unification problem is unification modulo the theory of exclusive-xor, together with some free function symbols. Another feature of the unification problem is that each variable is only allowed to be mapped to a term from a given set of terms. Intuitively, the set of terms associated with a variable (modelling some plain-text block) include everything that an adversary is able to compute when generating that plain-text block. We call this kind of unification problem local XOR unification. We present two concrete versions of the local XOR unification problem. They are called f-rooted local unification, and ⊕-rooted local unification. They can be used to analyze different cryptographic modes of operation. For f-rooted local unification, this paper gives a unification algorithm, which can find a subset of all unifiers, called minimum unifiers. For ⊕-rooted local unification, this paper gives a unification algorithm, which can find all unifiers. We prove the soundness completeness and termination of both of those algorithms.

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we discuss some background that will be used in this paper. In Section 3, we introduce two concrete versions of the local XOR unification problem and discuss how they are related to security of modes of operation. In Section 4 and Section 5, we describe how we solve these unification problems. We conclude in Section 6.

{1}------------------------------------------------

# 2 Preliminaries

A term can be built up from constants (0, r1, r2, . . .), variables, Boolean values ⊕, ×, two unary function symbols f and h. We distinguish between two types of variables: term variables and Boolean variables. A term variable (x, x1, x2, . . .) can be instantiated by a term. A Boolean variable (b, b1, b2, . . .) can only be instantiated by a Boolean value (0, 1). If a term t does not contain any variable, t is a ground term. If t does not contain any Boolean variables or Boolean values, we call it a pure term. Otherwise, we call it a mixed term. To be more precise, we can build up terms in the following way.

```
term := constant | variable | f(term) | h(term) | term ⊕ term | bool × term
variable := term variable | Boolean variable
bool := Boolean variable | 0 | 1
```

We assume that all terms are simplified by applying the following rules in R modulo AC(Associativity and Commutativity).

$$R = \{t \oplus t \to 0, t \oplus 0 \to t, 1 \times t \to t, 0 \times t \to 0\}$$

We use a mixed term to represent a set of terms. For example, suppose that mt = b<sup>1</sup> × r ⊕ b<sup>2</sup> × f(r), then mt represents a set of terms T = {0, r, f(r), r ⊕ f(r)}. The idea is that under all possible Boolean values for b<sup>1</sup> and b2, mt is one of the terms in T after simplification. We will use this idea in Section 5.

A term t is an f-rooted term if t is of the form f(t 0 ). Similarly, a ×-rooted term is of the form co × t, where co is either a Boolean variable or a Boolean value, and t is a term. We call co the coefficient of co × t. An ⊕-rooted term t is of the form t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t<sup>2</sup> ⊕ . . . ⊕ tn, where t1, . . . , t<sup>n</sup> are called summands of t. Let T = {t1, t2, . . . , tn} be a set of terms, we use ⊕T to denote t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t<sup>2</sup> ⊕ . . . ⊕ tn.

A substitution is a set of bindings for variables. If a substitution σ is of the form {x<sup>1</sup> 7→ t1, x<sup>2</sup> 7→ t2, . . . , x<sup>n</sup> 7→ tn}. We can write it as σ = {x<sup>1</sup> 7→ t1}∪Γ, where Γ = {x<sup>2</sup> 7→ t2, . . . , x<sup>n</sup> 7→ tn}. A term substitution maps term variables to terms. A Boolean substitution maps Boolean variables to Boolean values. We use domain(σ) to denote the domain of a substitution σ. In this paper, we do not consider any substitutions σ, where domain(σ) contains both term variables and Boolean variables. For simplicity, from now on, variables mean term variables, and substitutions mean term substitutions.

We can apply a substitution σ to a term t in the straightforward way. If x ∈ domain(σ), then replace each occurrence of x in t by xσ. Similarly, if we apply a Boolean substitution τ to a term t, we replace each occurrence of a Boolean variable b in t by bτ . Let T = {t1, t2, . . . , tn} be a set of terms, σ be a substitution, then T σ = {t1σ, t2σ, . . . , tnσ}. Similarly, T τ = {t1τ, t2τ, . . . , tnτ}, where τ is a Boolean substitution.

We use σ1σ<sup>2</sup> to denote the composition of two substitutions σ<sup>1</sup> and σ2. We call σ1σ<sup>2</sup> an instance of σ1. For any term t, t(σ1σ2) = (tσ1)σ2. We use σ ◦ τ to denote the composition of a substitution σ = {x<sup>1</sup> 7→ t1, x<sup>2</sup> 7→ t2, . . . , x<sup>n</sup> 7→ tn} and a Boolean substitution τ . σ ◦ τ = {x<sup>1</sup> 7→ t1τ, x<sup>2</sup> 7→ t2τ, . . . , x<sup>n</sup> 7→ tnτ}. So for any term t, t(σ ◦ τ ) = (tσ)τ . We use τ<sup>1</sup> ∪· τ<sup>2</sup> to denote the consistent union of two Boolean substitutions τ<sup>1</sup> and τ2. This operation is undefined if there exists a Boolean variable b s.t. b ∈ domain(τ1) ∩ domain(τ2) and bτ<sup>1</sup> 6= bτ2. Otherwise,

$$b(\tau_1 \cup \tau_2) = \begin{cases} b\tau_1 & x \in domain(\tau_1) \\ b\tau_2 & otherwise \end{cases}$$

{2}------------------------------------------------

Note that if domain(τ1) ∩ domain(τ2) = ∅, then τ<sup>1</sup> ∪· τ<sup>2</sup> is exactly τ<sup>1</sup> ∪ τ2.

We use t<sup>1</sup> =<sup>⊕</sup> t<sup>2</sup> to denote that t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> are the same after simplification using the rules in R. Let eq be an equation of the form t<sup>1</sup> ?= t2, where t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> are pure terms. σ is a unifier of eq if t1σ =<sup>⊕</sup> t2σ. Let eqs be a set of equations on pure terms, σ is a unifier of eqs if σ is a unifier of all the equations in eqs. The following definition defines a complete set of unifiers of a set of equations. [\[6\]](#page-15-4) shows how complete set of unifiers can be computed.

<span id="page-2-3"></span>Definition 2.1. We use CSU⊕(eqs) to denote the complete set of unifiers of eqs. CSU⊕(eqs) is a set of substitutions s.t.

- If σ ∈ CSU⊕(eqs), then σ is a unifier of eqs.
- If τ is a unifier of eqs if there exist σ ∈ CSU⊕(eqs) s.t. τ = σσ<sup>0</sup> for some σ 0 .

A position p is a sequence of positive integers. len(p) denotes the number of positive integers in p, λ denotes the empty sequence. Let p<sup>1</sup> and p<sup>2</sup> be two positions, p<sup>1</sup> is a prefix of p<sup>2</sup> if p<sup>2</sup> is of the form p1.i1.i2...in, where i<sup>j</sup> is a positive integer (1 ≤ j ≤ n). p<sup>1</sup> is an immediate prefix of p<sup>2</sup> if p<sup>2</sup> is of the form p1.i, where i is a positive integer. Let t be a term, and p be a position, we use t|<sup>p</sup> to denote the subterm of t at position p. For any term t, t|<sup>λ</sup> = t. If g is a function symbol of arity n, then g(t1, t2, . . . , tn)|i,i1,i2,...,i<sup>m</sup> = t<sup>i</sup> |i1,i2,...,im. We use t[s]|<sup>p</sup> to denote the term obtained by replacing in t the subterm at position p by term s. For example, r<sup>1</sup> ⊕ f(r2)|2.<sup>1</sup> = r2, r<sup>1</sup> ⊕ f(r2)[x1]|2.<sup>1</sup> = r<sup>1</sup> ⊕ f(x1).

If t is a term, p is a position, σ is a substitution, then (t|p)σ = (tσ)|p.

# 3 Local XOR Unification

The goal in local XOR unification is to find a substitution making two terms equivalent modulo the theory of exclusive-or, but each variable is only allowed to be mapped to a term from a given set of terms. In Section [3.1](#page-2-0) and [3.2,](#page-3-0) we introduce two concrete versions of local XOR unification. In Section [3.3,](#page-4-0) we discuss how they are related to cryptography.

### <span id="page-2-0"></span>3.1 f-rooted Local Unification

Definition [3.1](#page-2-1) defines f-mappings, which map variables to sets of terms. Definition [3.2](#page-2-2) defines a relation ≺M<sup>f</sup> . Definition [3.3](#page-3-1) defines a concrete version of the local XOR unification called f-rooted local unification, since the goal is to unify two f-rooted terms.

<span id="page-2-1"></span>Definition 3.1. Let M be a mapping from variables to sets of pure terms. M is an f-mapping if

- For each variable x ∈ domain(M), 0 ∈ M(x).
- For each variable x, if t ∈ M(x), then t is either a constant or an f-rooted term.

<span id="page-2-2"></span>Definition 3.2. Let M be an f-mapping.

- If t ∈ M(x), then t ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x.
- If t ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x, then h(t) ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x.
- If t<sup>1</sup> ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x, t<sup>2</sup> ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x, . . ., t<sup>n</sup> ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x , then t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t<sup>2</sup> ⊕ . . . ⊕ t<sup>n</sup> ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x.

{3}------------------------------------------------

t ⊀M<sup>f</sup> x if t ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x does not hold.

σ is an admissible M<sup>f</sup> -substitution if, for each variable x ∈ domain(σ), xσ =<sup>⊕</sup> tσ, for some t ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x.

<span id="page-3-1"></span>Definition 3.3. Let M be an f-mapping. t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> are two f-rooted pure terms. t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> are M<sup>f</sup> -unifiable if and only if there exists some substitution σ such that

- σ is an admissible M<sup>f</sup> -substitution.
- t1σ =<sup>⊕</sup> t2σ.

σ is called a M<sup>f</sup> -unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t2. The problem of checking if t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> are M<sup>f</sup> -unifiable is called f-rooted local unification.

Appendix [A](#page-16-0) provides a function M<sup>f</sup> -admissible for checking if some substitution is an admissible M<sup>f</sup> -substitution.

### <span id="page-3-0"></span>3.2 ⊕-rooted Local Unification

Definition [3.4](#page-3-2) defines ⊕-mappings, which map variables to sets of terms. Definition [3.5](#page-3-3) defines a relation ≺M<sup>⊕</sup> . Definition [3.6](#page-3-4) defines a concrete version of the local XOR unification called ⊕-rooted local unification, since the goal is to unify some ⊕-rooted term with 0.

<span id="page-3-2"></span>Definition 3.4. Let M be a mapping from variables to sets of pure terms. M is an ⊕-mapping if

- For each variable x<sup>i</sup> , 0 ∈ M(xi).
- For each variable x<sup>i</sup> , if t ∈ M(xi), then h does not occur in t, and t does not contain any variable x<sup>j</sup> , where j ≥ i.
- If i < j, then M(xi) ⊆ M(x<sup>j</sup> ).

<span id="page-3-3"></span>Definition 3.5. Let M be an ⊕-mapping.

- If t ∈ M(x), then t ≺M<sup>⊕</sup> x.
- If t<sup>1</sup> ≺M<sup>⊕</sup> x, t<sup>2</sup> ≺M<sup>⊕</sup> x, . . ., t<sup>n</sup> ≺M<sup>⊕</sup> x , then t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t<sup>2</sup> ⊕ . . . ⊕ t<sup>n</sup> ≺M<sup>⊕</sup> x.

t ⊀<sup>M</sup><sup>⊕</sup> x if t ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>⊕</sup> x does not hold.

σ is an admissible M⊕-substitution if, for each variable x in the domain of σ, xσ =<sup>⊕</sup> tσ, for some t ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>⊕</sup> x.

<span id="page-3-4"></span>Definition 3.6. Let M be an ⊕-mapping. T = {t1, t2, . . . , tn}, where h does not occur in T. A subset T <sup>0</sup> of T is M⊕-unifiable with 0 if and only if there exists some substitution σ such that

- σ is an admissible M⊕-substitution.
- T <sup>0</sup>σ = 0.

σ is called an M⊕-unifier of T 0 . The problem of checking if some subset T <sup>0</sup> of T is M⊕-unifiable with 0 is called ⊕-rooted local unification.

{4}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-4-0"></span>3.3 Application to Cryptography

Both unification problems are related to security of modes of operation. The idea in [\[7\]](#page-15-3) is that a block of message can be modelled symbolically as a term. Variables model plain-text blocks. Non-zero constants model a block of random bits. "0" models a block of message consisting of all 0's. f models a block cipher, h models a publicly computable cryptographic hash function.

We consider a setting where an adversary interacts with an encryption oracle. The adversary sends plain-text blocks to the encryption oracle, and the encryption oracle responds by encrypting plain-text blocks using a mode of operation. A mode of operation is IND\$-CPA secure if an adversary has negligible advantage to distinguish between a sequence of blocks returned by the mode of operation and a sequence of randomly generated blocks. We consider multiple schedules for modes of operation. In a block-wise schedule (as discussed in [\[4\]](#page-15-5)), an encrypted block is sent to the adversary immediate after it is generated by the encryption oracle. In a message-wise schedule, all the encrypted blocks are sent to the adversary after the entire message is encrypted.

In [\[7\]](#page-15-3), a symbolic history refers to the messages exchanged during a process in which an adversary interacts with the encryption oracle to encrypt a message. In order to model the symbolic history of a mode of operation, we use a sequence of MOO-tuples (Mode-of-Operation tuples) of the form (S<sup>P</sup> , t, S<sup>C</sup> ), where S<sup>P</sup> is a set of plain-text blocks needed to encrypt the current plain-text block, t is a term that represents the encryption of the current block, S<sup>C</sup> is a set of cipher-text blocks that are sent to the adversary after encrypting the current plain-text block. Here are two examples:

<span id="page-4-1"></span>Example 3.1. Block-wise Cipher Block Chaining for 3 cipher-text blocks:

```
(∅, r, {r}),
({x1}, f(r ⊕ x1), {f(r ⊕ x1)}),
({x2}, f(f(r ⊕ x1) ⊕ x2), {f(f(r ⊕ x1) ⊕ x2)})
```

Let M(x) be the set of terms containing 0 and all cipher-text blocks that are sent to an adversary before the adversary generates x. Intuitively t ∈ M(x) means that t is immediately available to the adversary. t ≺M<sup>f</sup> x means that the adversary can compute t when generating x, using terms in M(x) and some functions that the adversary can compute (e.g. ⊕ and h). So in Example [3.1,](#page-4-1) M(x1) = {0, r}, M(x2) = {0, r, f(r ⊕ x1)}. Then f(f(r ⊕ x1) ⊕ x2) and f(r⊕x1) are M<sup>f</sup> -unifiable under the substitution {x<sup>1</sup> 7→ r, x<sup>2</sup> 7→ f(0)}. Thus, block-wise Cipher Block Chaining is not IND\$-CPA secure. The idea is that if the adversary can generate some cipher-text blocks s.t. two of them are the same, then the adversary can distinguish between a sequence of cipher-text blocks returned by the encryption oracle and a sequence of randomly generated blocks.

In general, let M be a mode of operation, in which the encryption oracle only returns constants and f-rooted terms (e.g. Cipher Block Chaining, Propagating Cipher Block Chaining, Accumulated Block Cipher [\[5\]](#page-15-6)). In [\[7\]](#page-15-3), the author shows that M is IND\$-CPA secure if and only if no symbolic history of M contains two terms returned by the encryption oracle that are M<sup>f</sup> -unifiable.

<span id="page-4-2"></span>Example 3.2. Message-wise Output Feedback Mode for 3 cipher-text blocks:

```
(∅, r, ∅),
({x1}, f(r) ⊕ x1, ∅),
({x2}, f(f(r)) ⊕ x2, {r, f(r) ⊕ x1, f(f(r)) ⊕ x2})
```

Again, let M(x) be the set of terms containing 0 and all cipher-text blocks that are sent to an adversary before the adversary generates x. So in Example [3.2,](#page-4-2) M(x1) = {0},M(x2) = {0}. 

{5}------------------------------------------------

No subset of {r, f(r) ⊕ x1, f(f(r)) ⊕ x2} is M⊕-unifiable with 0.

In general, let M be a mode of operation, where no cryptographic hash function is used (e.g. Cipher Feedback Mode, Output Feedback Mode). In [\[7\]](#page-15-3), the author shows that M is IND\$-CPA secure if and only if no symbolic history of M contains any terms returned by the encryption oracle that are M⊕-unifiable with 0.

# 4 Solving f-rooted Local Unification

In this section, we present an algorithm for solving f-rooted local unification. Given an fmapping M and two pure f-rooted terms t<sup>1</sup> and t2, the goal is to check if t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> are M<sup>f</sup> -unifiable. By Definition [3.3](#page-3-1) and [2.1,](#page-2-3) any M<sup>f</sup> -unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> must be an instance of some τ ∈ CSU⊕(t<sup>1</sup> ?= t2). Therefore, we nondeterministically start from a substitution τ ∈ CSU⊕(t<sup>1</sup> ?= t2). We keep composing τ with some substitution σ until we get a M<sup>f</sup> -unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t2. In this section, we only consider pure terms.

First we introduce the following notion of an open position.

Definition 4.1. An open position is of the form (t, p) where t is a term, p is a position, and for all prefix p <sup>0</sup> of p, t|p<sup>0</sup> is not an f-rooted term. (t, p) is an innermost open position if (t, p) is an open position, and t|<sup>p</sup> is a constant, a variable or an f-rooted term.

An innermost open position (t, p) is extended from an open position (t, p<sup>0</sup> ) if p 0 is a prefix of p.

Example 4.1. Let t = f(r1) ⊕ h(r2).

- (1) (t, 1.1) is not an open position, since t|<sup>1</sup> is an f-rooted term.
- (2) (t, 2) is an open position.
- (3) (t, 2.1) is an innermost open position.
- (4) (t, 2.1) is extended from (t, 2).

Definition 4.2. Let M be an f-mapping, τ be a substitution. (xτ, p) is a bad open position in τ if for all t <sup>0</sup> ≺M<sup>f</sup> x, xτ |<sup>p</sup> 6=<sup>⊕</sup> t 0 τ .

(xτ, p) is a bad innermost open position in τ if (xτ, p) is both an innermost open position and a bad open position in τ .

The following Algorithm [1](#page-5-0) can be used to check if (xτ, p) is a bad open position in τ . The function computable is from Algorithm [7](#page-16-1) in Appendix [A.](#page-16-0)

#### Algorithm 1 Check if (xτ, p) is a bad open position in τ

- <span id="page-5-0"></span>1: function bad-open-position(x, τ, p,M)
- 2: return not computable-by-adversary(xτ |p, τ,M, x)
- 3: end function

The following lemma states that if θ is a M<sup>f</sup> -unifier, then there is no bad open position in θ.

<span id="page-5-1"></span>Lemma 4.1. Let M be an f-mapping, and let t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> be two f-rooted terms. If θ is a M<sup>f</sup> -unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t2, then for any open position (xθ, p), xθ |<sup>p</sup> =<sup>⊕</sup> tθ, for some t ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x.

Proof. Induction on the length of p. If p = λ, xθ|<sup>p</sup> =<sup>⊕</sup> xθ, this is trivial by Definition [3.2.](#page-2-2) Suppose that p <sup>0</sup> = i1.i2...in−1, and xθ |p<sup>0</sup> =<sup>⊕</sup> tθ, for some t ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x. We consider two cases:

{6}------------------------------------------------

- (1) Suppose that t = h(t 0 ), where t <sup>0</sup> ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x. Let p be i1.i2...in−1, 1. Then xθ |<sup>p</sup> =<sup>⊕</sup> t 0 θ.
- (2) Suppose that t = t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t<sup>2</sup> ⊕ . . . tm, where where t<sup>i</sup> ≺<sup>M</sup><sup>f</sup> x (1 ≤ i ≤ m). Let p be i1.i2...in−1, i (1 ≤ i ≤ m), xθ |<sup>p</sup> = tiθ.

We use Example [4.2](#page-6-0) as a running example to explain the ideas behind the inference rules.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Example 4.2. Suppose that we have the following mapping M. We want to check if f(x2) and f(h(x3) ⊕ f(0) ⊕ f(x4) ⊕ f(f(r<sup>1</sup> ⊕ r2))) are M<sup>f</sup> -unifiable.

```
M(x1) = {0, r1}
M(x2) = {0, r1, f(x1 ⊕ r1)}
M(x3) = {0, r1, f(x1 ⊕ r1), f(x2)}
M(x4) = {0, r1, f(x1 ⊕ r1), f(x2), f(r1 ⊕ r2))}
```

CSU⊕({f(x2) ?= f(h(x3) ⊕ f(0) ⊕ f(x4) ⊕ f(f(r<sup>1</sup> ⊕ r2)))}) = {τ}, where τ = {x<sup>2</sup> 7→ h(x3) ⊕ f(0) ⊕ f(x4) ⊕ f(f(r<sup>1</sup> ⊕ r2))}.

We have the following bad open positions in τ .

```
(x2τ, λ): x2τ |λ = h(x3) ⊕ f(0) ⊕ f(x4) ⊕ f(f(r1 ⊕ r2))
(x2τ, 1): x2τ |1 = h(x3)
(x2τ, 1.1): x2τ |1.1 = x3
(x2τ, 2): x2τ |2 = f(0)
(x2τ, 3): x2τ |3 = f(x4)
(x2τ, 4): x2τ |4 = f(f(r1 ⊕ r2))
```

By Lemma [4.1,](#page-5-1) if τ is a M<sup>f</sup> -unifier. Then there must not be any bad open position in τ . The inference rules in Rf ix allow us to somehow deal with the bad open positions.

$$\mathcal{R}_{fix}$$

$$\frac{\{x \mapsto t\} \cup \tau}{(\{x \mapsto t\} \cup \tau)\sigma} \ Prev$$

, where (1) x ∈ domain(M). (2) σ ∈ CSU⊕(t|<sup>p</sup> ?= t 0 τ ), where t <sup>0</sup> ∈ M(x), and (t, p) is a bad innermost open position in {x 7→ t} ∪ τ .

We use P rev(τ, σ) to indicate the result of applying the P rev rule, where σ is used to instantiate τ . So P rev(τ, σ) = τσ.

$$\frac{\{x \mapsto t\} \cup \tau}{(\{x \mapsto t\} \cup \tau)\sigma} \ Cancel$$

, where (1) x ∈ domain(M). (2) σ ∈ CSU⊕(t|<sup>p</sup><sup>1</sup> ⊕ t|<sup>p</sup><sup>2</sup> ⊕ . . . ⊕ t|<sup>p</sup><sup>n</sup> ?= 0), where ∀i ∈ {1, 2, . . . , n}, (t, pi) are open positions that share a common immediate prefix p, and t|<sup>p</sup> is an ⊕-rooted term. (3) ∃i ∈ {1, 2, . . . , n} s.t. (t, pi) is a bad open position in {x 7→ t} ∪ τ .

Note that we need condition (1) in both inference rules in Rf ix, since procedures for solving unification modulo exclusive-xor may generate new variables. We do not apply the P rev rule or 

{7}------------------------------------------------

Cancel rule for new variables, generated by procedures for solving unification modulo exclusivexor. We use  $Cancel(\tau, \sigma)$  to indicate the result of applying the Cancel rule, where  $\sigma$  is used to instantiate  $\tau$ . So  $Cancel(\tau, \sigma) = \tau \sigma$ .

The function f-ROOTED-UNIFY( $\mathcal{M}, t_1, t_2$ ) in Algorithm 2 checks if two terms  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  are  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifiable. We prove properties (soundness, completeness, termination) in Appendix B. Example 4.3 shows the details of how we use f-ROOTED-UNIFY to solve the unification problem in Example 4.2. We use  $\tau_i$  to denote  $\tau$  at the i-th iteration of the loop in function FIX( $\tau$ ).

<span id="page-7-1"></span>**Example 4.3.** Continuing Example 4.2,  $\tau = \{x_2 \mapsto h(x_3) \oplus f(0) \oplus f(x_4) \oplus f(f(r_1 \oplus r_2))\}$ . FIX $(\tau)$  is called.

```
\tau_1 = \{x_2 \mapsto h(x_3) \oplus f(0) \oplus f(x_4) \oplus f(f(r_1 \oplus r_2))
\tau_2 = Prev(\tau_1, \sigma_1) = \{x_2 \mapsto h(x_3) \oplus f(0) \oplus f(x_4) \oplus f(f(r_1 \oplus r_2)), x_1 \mapsto r_1\} \text{ , where } \sigma_1 = \{x_1 \mapsto r_1\} \text{ is a unifier of } \{f(0) \stackrel{?}{=} f(x_1 \oplus r_1)\}. \text{ That is, } \sigma_1 \text{ is a unifier of } x_2\tau_1|_2 \text{ and } f(x_1 \oplus r_1),
```

 $\tau_3 = Cancel(\tau_2, \sigma_2) = \{x_2 \mapsto h(x_3) \oplus f(0), x_1 \mapsto r_1, x_4 \mapsto f(r_1 \oplus r_2)\}$ , where  $\sigma_2 = \{x_4 \mapsto f(r_1 \oplus r_2)\}$  is a unifier of  $\{f(x_4) \stackrel{?}{=} f(f(r_1 \oplus r_2))\}$  That is,  $\sigma_2$  is a unifier of  $x_2 \tau_2 |_3$  and  $x_2 \tau_2 |_4$ .  $\tau_4 = Prev(\tau_3, \sigma_3) = \{x_2 \mapsto h(r_1) \oplus f(0), x_1 \mapsto r_1, x_4 \mapsto f(r_1 \oplus r_2), x_3 \mapsto r_1\}$ , where  $\sigma_3 = \{x_3 \mapsto r_1\}$  is a unifier of  $\{x_3 \stackrel{?}{=} r_1\}$  That is,  $\sigma_3$  is a unifier of  $x_2 \tau_3 |_{1.1}$  and  $r_1$ , where  $r_1 \in \mathcal{M}(x_2)$ .

 $\tau_4$  is a  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -substitution. f-ROOTED-UNIFY returns  $\tau_4$ .

### **Algorithm 2** Checking if $t_1$ and $t_2$ are $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifiable

where  $f(x_1 \oplus r_1) \in \mathcal{M}(x_2)$ 

```
1: function f-rooted-unify(\mathcal{M}, t_1, t_2)
          // (1) \mathcal{M} is an f-mapping. (2) t_1 and t_2 are two f-rooted terms.
 2:
        Nondeterministically choose a unifier \tau from CSU_{\oplus}(t_1 \stackrel{?}{=} t_2).
 3:
         result \leftarrow FIX(\tau)
 4:
        if result = None then
 5:
                                      //t_1 and t_2 are not \mathcal{M}_f-unifiable".
             return false
 6:
         else
 7:
                                       //result is a \mathcal{M}_f-unifier of t_1 and t_2.
             return result
 8:
         end if
 9:
10: end function
11:
12: function FIX(\tau)
         while some rule is applicable to \tau do
13:
             \tau \leftarrow Prev(\tau, \sigma) \text{ or } Cancel(\tau, \sigma).
                                                                //Nodeterministically apply a rule.
14:
         end while
15:
        if \mathcal{M}_f-ADMISSIBLE(\mathcal{M}, \tau) = true then
16:
             return \tau.
17:
         else
18:
             return None.
19:
         end if
20:
21: end function
```

{8}------------------------------------------------

# 5 Solving $\oplus$ -rooted Local Unification

In this section, we present an algorithm for solving the  $\oplus$ -rooted local unification problem, which we introduced in Section 3.2. Given some  $\oplus$ -mapping  $\mathcal{M}$  and a set of pure terms  $\mathscr{C} = \{t_1, t_2, \ldots, t_n\}$ . The goal is to check if some subset  $\mathscr{C}'$  of  $\mathscr{C}$  is  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -unifiable with 0. We will use the following Example 5.1 as a running example:

```
Example 5.1. \mathcal{M}(x_1) = \{r\}.

\mathcal{M}(x_2) = \{r, f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_1\}.

\mathcal{C} = \{r, f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_1, f(f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_2)\}.
```

 $\mathscr{C}$  is  $\mathscr{M}_{\oplus}$ -unifiable with 0, under  $\{x_1 \mapsto r, x_2 \mapsto f(0)\}$ . We will show how we solve this unification problem. In Section 5.1, we present a helper function REMOVE-TERM-VARIABLES( $\mathscr{M}, \mathscr{C}$ ), which computes a special term substitution  $\gamma^{\mathscr{M}}$ . We use  $\gamma^{\mathscr{M}}$  to instantiate terms in  $\mathscr{C}$ , thereby remove term variables in  $\mathscr{C}$ . So  $\mathscr{C}_{mix} = \mathscr{C}\gamma^{\mathscr{M}}$ . In Section 5.2, we present another helper function Annotate-and-saturate, which tries to figure out if the XOR of some subset of  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}$  is 0 under some Boolean substitution  $\tau$ . In Section 5.3, we put things together and present a function XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY, which solves the  $\oplus$ -rooted local unification problem.

In this section, variables mean term variables, substitutions mean term substitutions. We use  $t, t_1, t_2, \ldots$  to denote pure terms, and use  $mt, mt_1, mt_2, \ldots$  to denote mixed terms.  $\sigma, \sigma_1, \sigma_2, \ldots$  denote term substitutions,  $\tau, \tau_1, \tau_2, \ldots$  denote Boolean substitutions.

#### <span id="page-8-1"></span>5.1 Handling Variables

In order to illustrate the idea, let us consider Example 5.1. According to Definition 3.5,  $x_1$  can only be instantiated by 0 or r. We denote this as  $x_1 \mapsto b_1 \times r$ , where  $b_1$  is a Boolean variable. Similarly,  $x_2 \mapsto b_2 \times r \oplus b_3 \times (f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_1)$ , or equivalently  $x_2 \mapsto b_2 \times r \oplus b_4 \times f(r \oplus x_1)$ . (Under all possible values for  $b_2, b_3, b_4, x_2$  maps to the same set of terms.) We then instantiate  $x_1$  and  $x_2$  in  $\mathscr C$  and get a set of mixed terms  $\mathscr C_{mix} = \{r, f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)) \oplus (b_1 \times r), f(f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)))\}$ . Notice that there are no variables in  $\mathscr C_{mix}$ .

To formalize the above idea. We have the following definitions. Suppose that  $t = t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_m \oplus x_1 \oplus x_2 \oplus \ldots x_n$ , where  $t_i (1 \leq i \leq m)$  is not a variable. We define  $NonVar(t) = t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_m$ , and  $Var(t) = x_1 \oplus x_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus x_n$ . Let  $T = \{t_1, t_2, \ldots t_n\}$  be a set of mixed terms, we define  $NonVar(T) = \{NonVar(t_1), NonVar(t_2), \ldots, NonVar(t_n)\}$ . Let  $\vec{B} = \langle b_1, b_2, \ldots, b_n \rangle$  be a vector of Boolean variables,  $T \bullet \vec{B}$  is defined to be  $b_1 \times t_1 \oplus b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \ldots b_n \times t_n$ .  $T \bullet \vec{B}$  is called a linear combination of  $t_1, t_2, \ldots, t_n$ .

Given an  $\oplus$ -mapping  $\mathcal{M}$  and a set of terms  $\mathscr{C}$ , our initial goal is to find a subset of terms in  $\mathscr{C}$  s.t. their XOR is 0 under some admissible  $\mathscr{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitution. REMOVE-TERM-VARIABLES( $\mathscr{M},\mathscr{C}$ ) in Algorithm 3 returns ( $\gamma^{\mathscr{M}},\mathscr{C}_{mix}$ ), where  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}=\mathscr{C}\gamma^{\mathscr{M}}$ . Our new goal is to find a subset of terms in  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}$  s.t. their XOR is 0 under some Boolean substitution. In Appendix  $\mathbb{C}$ , we show that for any Boolean substitution  $\tau, \gamma^{\mathscr{M}} \circ \tau$  is always an admissible  $\mathscr{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitution.

{9}------------------------------------------------

#### Algorithm 3 remove term variables

```
1: function remove-term-variables(M, C)
 2: // Assume (1) domain(M) = {x1, x2, . . . , xm}. (2) C = {t1, t2, . . . , tn}.
 3:
 4: γM ← {x1 7→ t
                      0
                      1
                       , x2 7→ t
                                0
                                2
                                 , . . . , xm 7→ t
                                              0
                                              m}, where t
                                                          0
                                                          i = NonV ar(M(xi)) B~
                                                                                  i
                                                                                   , and B~
                                                                                           i
                                                                                             is a
   vector of fresh Boolean variables.
 5:
 6: Cmix ← CγM.
 7:
 8: return (γM, Cmix)
 9: end function
10:
```

### <span id="page-9-0"></span>5.2 Applying Inference Rules

```
Consider Example 5.1. remove-term-variables(M, C) returns (γM, Cmix), where
   γM = {x1 7→ b1 × r, x2 7→ b2 × r ⊕ b4 × f(r ⊕ x1)}.
   Cmix = {r, f(r ⊕ (b1 × r)) ⊕ (b1 × r), f(f(r ⊕ (b1 × r)) ⊕ b2 × r ⊕ b4 × f(r ⊕ (b1 × r)))}.
   It turns out that the XOR of all three terms in Cmix is 0 under {b1 7→ 1, b2 7→ 0, b4 7→ 1}.
We use two procedures to figure that out.
```

In Section [5.2.1,](#page-9-2) we present a procedure for checking if two mixed terms are unifiable under some Boolean substitution. For example, we can unify r with b<sup>1</sup> × r under {b<sup>1</sup> 7→ 1}. f(r ⊕ (b<sup>1</sup> × r)) and f(f(r ⊕ (b<sup>1</sup> × r)) ⊕ b<sup>2</sup> × r ⊕ b<sup>4</sup> × f(r ⊕ (b<sup>1</sup> × r))) are also unifiable under {b<sup>1</sup> 7→ 1, b<sup>2</sup> 7→ 0, b<sup>4</sup> 7→ 1}.

In Section [5.2.2,](#page-11-0) we present another procedure that can take the XOR of two mixed terms in Cmix, calls the first procedure to unify two summands occurring in those mixed terms, thereby cancel the two summands. For example, the procedure can take t<sup>1</sup> = f(r ⊕ (b<sup>1</sup> × r)) ⊕ (b<sup>1</sup> × r) and t<sup>2</sup> = f(f(r ⊕ (b<sup>1</sup> × r)) ⊕ b<sup>2</sup> × r ⊕ b<sup>4</sup> × f(r ⊕ (b<sup>1</sup> × r))), unify f(r ⊕ (b<sup>1</sup> × r)) and t<sup>2</sup> under τ = {b<sup>1</sup> 7→ 1, b<sup>2</sup> 7→ 0, b<sup>4</sup> 7→ 1}. Therefore, (t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t2)τ = r.

#### <span id="page-9-2"></span>5.2.1 Unifying Two Mixed Terms

Definition 5.1. Let eq be an equation t<sup>1</sup> ?= t<sup>2</sup> on mixed terms without term variables. eq is Boolean unifiable under some substitution τ if t1τ =<sup>⊕</sup> t2τ . We call τ a Boolean unifier of eq. Let eqs be a set of equations on mixed terms without term variables. eqs is Boolean unifiable under τ if each equation in eqs is Boolean unifiable under τ . We call τ a Boolean unifier of eqs.

The function boolean-unify(t1, t2) from Algorithm [4](#page-11-1) checks if t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> are Boolean unifiable by nondeterministically applying the inference rules in Rbool−unif to states. A state st is of the form eqs|τ , where eqs is a set of equations on mixed terms and τ is a Boolean substitution. To check if two linear mixed terms t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> are Boolean unifiable, we start from the initial state: {t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t<sup>2</sup> ?= 0}|, and we keep applying the inference rules in Rbool−unif nondeterministically. Eventually we reach either a final state or a stuck state. A final state is a state of the form ∅|τ . A stuck state is a state of the form eqs|τ , where eqs 6= ∅, and no rule applies. We call st1, st2, . . . a trace of t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> if st<sup>1</sup> is {t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t<sup>2</sup> ?= 0}|, and ∀i > 1, st<sup>i</sup> is the result of applying one of the inference rules to sti−1. In Appendix [D,](#page-24-0) we prove properties about boolean-unify (Soundness, Completeness and Termination).

{10}------------------------------------------------

In order to cut down the search space, we define the notion of dep<sup>f</sup> (t), where t is a mixed term without any term variables. If t is a ground term, dep<sup>f</sup> (t) is the maximum number of nested f symbols in t. Or equivalently, dep<sup>f</sup> (t) is the maximum number of f symbols among all root-to-leaf paths of the syntax tree of t. If t contains Boolean variables, we define dep<sup>f</sup> (t) as {dep<sup>f</sup> (tτ ) | τ is a Boolean substitution, tτ is gound}. We write dep<sup>f</sup> (t) = [l, h] to denote that dep<sup>f</sup> (t) can be at least l and at most h. Note that two terms cannot possibly be Boolean unifiable unless their dep<sup>f</sup> intervals overlap. Given a term t without any term variables, dep<sup>f</sup> (t) can be computed in the following way.

- dep<sup>f</sup> (r) = [0, 0], where r is a constant.
- dep<sup>f</sup> (b × t) = [0, h], where dep<sup>f</sup> (t) = [l, h].
- dep<sup>f</sup> (f(t)) = [l + 1, h + 1], where dep<sup>f</sup> (t) = [l, h].
- dep<sup>f</sup> (t<sup>1</sup> ⊕t2) = [0, max(h1, h2)], where dep<sup>f</sup> (t1) = [l1, h1], dep<sup>f</sup> (t2) = [l2, h2] and dep<sup>f</sup> (t1) and dep<sup>f</sup> (t2) overlap.
- dep<sup>f</sup> (t<sup>1</sup> ⊕ t2) = [max(l1, l2), max(h1, h2)] , where dep<sup>f</sup> (t1) = [l1, h1], dep<sup>f</sup> (t2) = [l2, h2] and dep<sup>f</sup> (t1) and dep<sup>f</sup> (t2) do not overlap.

Example 5.2. dep<sup>f</sup> (b<sup>1</sup> × r ⊕ f(r)) = [1, 1] dep<sup>f</sup> (r ⊕ b<sup>1</sup> × f(r)) = [0, 1].

$$\mathcal{R}_{bool-unif}$$

$$\frac{\{0\stackrel{?}{=}0\} \cup \Gamma \mid \tau}{\Gamma \mid \tau} \ Remove$$

$$\frac{\{b \times t_1 \oplus t_2 \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} \cup \Gamma \mid \tau}{(\{t_2 \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} \cup \Gamma)(\{b \mapsto 0\}) \mid \tau \cup \{b \mapsto 0\}} Disappear$$

$$\frac{\{b_1 \times r_1 \oplus b_2 \times r_2 \oplus t \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} \cup \Gamma \mid \tau}{(\{t \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} \cup \Gamma)\tau' \mid \tau \cup \tau'} Duplicate_r$$

where τ <sup>0</sup> = {b<sup>1</sup> 7→ 1, b<sup>2</sup> 7→ 1}, dep<sup>f</sup> (r1) and dep<sup>f</sup> (r2) overlap.

$$\frac{\{b_1 \times f(t_1) \oplus b_2 \times f(t_2) \oplus t_3 \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} \cup \Gamma \mid \tau}{(\{t_3 \stackrel{?}{=} 0, t_1 \oplus t_2 \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} \Gamma) \tau' \mid \tau \cup \tau'} Duplicate_f$$

where τ <sup>0</sup> = {b<sup>1</sup> 7→ 1, b<sup>2</sup> 7→ 1}, dep(t1)<sup>f</sup> and dep<sup>f</sup> (t2) overlap.

Note that when we apply the Duplicate<sup>r</sup> rule or the Duplicate<sup>f</sup> rule, if a term t is not a ×-rooted term, we consider it to be a ×-rooted term with coefficient 1. For example, we can make the following inference.

$$\frac{\{r \oplus b \times r \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} \mid \epsilon}{\{0 \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} \mid \{b \mapsto 1\}} Duplicate_r$$

{11}------------------------------------------------

#### Algorithm 4 Check if two terms are Boolean unifiable

```
1: function boolean-unify(t1, t2)
2: /*Assume that t1 and t2 are mixed terms containing no term variables.*/
3: st ← {t1
              ?= t2}|
4: while st is not a final state or stuck state do
5: Nondeterministically apply a rule in Rbool−unif to st
6: end while
7: if st is a final state of the form ∅|τ then
8: return τ
9: else
10: return f alse
11: end if
12: end function
```

<span id="page-11-2"></span>Example 5.3. Check if t<sup>1</sup> = f(r⊕(b1×r)) and t<sup>2</sup> = f(f(r⊕(b1×r))⊕b2×r⊕b4×f(r⊕(b1×r))) are Boolean unifiable.

```
{f(r ⊕ (b1 × r)) ⊕ f(f(r ⊕ (b1 × r)) ⊕ b2 × r ⊕ b4 × f(r ⊕ (b1 × r))) ?= 0}|
Duplicatef =======⇒ {r ⊕ (b1 × r) ⊕ f(r ⊕ (b1 × r)) ⊕ b2 × r ⊕ b4 × f(r ⊕ (b1 × r)) ?= 0}|
Duplicater =======⇒ {f(0) ⊕ b2 × r ⊕ b4 × f(0) ?= 0}|{b1 7→ 1}
Disappear
======⇒ {f(0) ⊕ b4 × f(0) ?= 0}|{b1 7→ 1, b2 7→ 0}
Duplicatef =======⇒ {0
               ?= 0, 0
                       ?= 0}|{b1 7→ 1, b2 7→ 0, b4 7→ 1}
Remove =====⇒ {0
             ?= 0}|{b1 7→ 1, b2 7→ 0, b4 7→ 1}
Remove =====⇒ ∅|{b1 7→ 1, b2 7→ 0, b4 7→ 1}
So t1 and t2 are Boolean unifiable under {b1 7→ 1, b2 7→ 0, b4 7→ 1}.
```

#### <span id="page-11-0"></span>5.2.2 Applying High-Level Inference Rules

Let Cmix = {mt1, mt2, . . . , mtn} be a set of mixed terms. Our goal is to take the XOR of a subset of terms in Cmix, apply some Boolean substitution and get 0. Roughly speaking, we saturate Cmix using two rules: the Combine rule and the Cancel rule, which we will introduce later. The Combine rule allows us to take the XOR of two mixed terms mt<sup>i</sup> , mt<sup>j</sup> , and apply some Boolean substitution τ , provided that one summand of mt<sup>i</sup> and another summand of mt<sup>j</sup> are Boolean unifiable under τ . The Cancel rule allows us to take one mixed term mt<sup>i</sup> and apply some Boolean substitution τ , provided that two summands of mt<sup>i</sup> are Boolean unifiable under τ .

We keep track of some additional information along the way. We annotate each mixed term with a set of indices and a Boolean substitution. More formally, an annotated mixed term amt is of the form mt[I; τ ], where mt is a mixed term, I is a set of indices and τ is a Boolean substitution. We need I and τ for the following reasons.

First, we maintain a crucial invariant during the saturation process, which is, if mt[I; τ ] is generated, then ⊕{mt<sup>i</sup> |i ∈ I}τ = mt. So I and τ tells us how we can get mt.

Second, If we have mt1[I1; τ1] and mt2[I2; τ2], where I<sup>1</sup> ∩ I<sup>2</sup> 6= ∅, we do not take the XOR of mt<sup>1</sup> and mt2.

Third, If we have mt1[I1; τ1] and mt2[I2; τ2], where τ<sup>1</sup> ∪· τ<sup>2</sup> is undefined, we do not take the XOR of mt<sup>1</sup> and mt2.

{12}------------------------------------------------

Let  $MT = \{mt_1, mt_2, \dots, mt_n\}$  be a set of mixed terms. We define annotate(MT) to be  $\{mt_1[\{1\}; \epsilon], mt_2[\{2\}; \epsilon], \dots, mt_n[\{n\}; \epsilon]\}$ . In Algorithm 5, ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE( $C_{mix}$ ) first obtains  $\mathscr{C}^1_{mix}$  by annotating  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}$ . It then saturates  $\mathscr{C}^1_{mix}$  using the inference rules in  $\mathscr{R}_{saturate}$ , and obtains a sequence  $\mathscr{C}^1_{mix}, \mathscr{C}^2_{mix}, \mathscr{C}^3_{mix}, \cdots$ .  $\forall i \geq 1, \mathscr{C}^{i+1}_{mix}$  is obtained from  $\mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$  by nondeterministically making an inference and adding the result to  $\mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$ , if it is not already in  $\mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$ .  $\mathscr{C}^n_{mix}$  is a saturation of  $\mathscr{C}^1_{mix}$  if nothing new can be added to  $\mathscr{C}^n_{mix}$ . In Appendix E, we prove properties of ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE.

We define an ordering on terms. Let  $mt_1$  and  $mt_2$  be two mixed terms.  $mt_1 \prec mt_2$  if  $dep_f(mt_1) = [l_1, h_1], dep_f(mt_2) = [l_2, h_2]$  and  $h_1 < l_2$ . Let mt be a mixed term of the form  $b_1 \times t_1 \oplus b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus b_n \times t_n$ .  $b_i \times t_i$  is a maximal term in mt if there does not exist any  $b_j \times t_j$  s.t.  $b_i \times t_i \prec b_j \times t_j$ . To improve efficiency of the saturation process, we require that both the Combine rule and the Cancel rule must be applied on maximal terms. We show that this requirement does not affect completeness.

$$\mathcal{R}_{saturate}$$

$$\frac{b_1 \times t_1 \oplus \Gamma_1[I_1; \tau_1] \quad b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \Gamma_2[I_2; \tau_2]}{(\Gamma_1 \oplus \Gamma_2)\tau_{123}[I_1 \cup I_2; \tau_{123}]} Combine$$

where

- (1)  $b_1 \times t_1$  is a maximal term in  $b_1 \times t_1 \oplus \Gamma_1$ ,  $b_2 \times t_2$  is a maximal term in  $b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \Gamma_2$ .
- (2)  $dep_f(b_1 \times t_1)$  and  $dep_f(b_2 \times t_2)$  overlap.
- (3)  $I_1 \cap I_2 = \emptyset$ .
- (4)  $\tau_3$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , and  $\tau_{123} = \tau_1 \cup \tau_2 \cup \tau_3 \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ .

$$\frac{b_1 \times t_1 \oplus b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \Gamma[I; \tau_1]}{\Gamma \tau_{12}[I; \tau_{12}]} \ Cancel$$

where

- (1)  $b_1 \times t_1$  and  $b_2 \times t_2$  are maximal terms in  $t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \Gamma_2$
- (2)  $\tau_2$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .  $\tau_{12} = \tau_1 \cup \tau_2 \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ .

Note that when we apply the Combine rule or the Cancel rule, if a term t is not a  $\times$ -rooted term, we consider it to be a  $\times$ -rooted term with coefficient 1. For example, we can make the following inference.

$$\frac{b_1 \times r_1 \oplus r_1[\{1\}; \epsilon]}{0[\{1\}; \{b_1 \mapsto 1\}]}$$

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Example 5.4.** Consider Example 5.1, where.  $\mathcal{M}(x_1) = \{r\}$ .

$$\mathcal{M}(x_2) = \{r, f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_1\}.$$

$$\mathcal{C} = \{r, f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_1, f(f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_2)\}.$$

REMOVE-TERM-VARIABLES  $(\mathcal{M}, \mathcal{C})$  returns:

$$\gamma^{\mathscr{M}} = \{x_1 \mapsto b_1 \times r, x_2 \mapsto b_2 \times r \oplus b_4 \times f(r \oplus x_1)\}.$$

$$\mathscr{C}_{mix} = \{r, f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)) \oplus (b_1 \times r), f(f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)) \oplus b_2 \times r \oplus b_4 \times f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)))\}.$$

Here is what ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE( $\mathscr{C}_{mix}$ ) does.

 $\mathscr{C}^{1}_{mix} = annotate(\mathscr{C}_{mix}) = \{r[\{1\}; \epsilon], f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)) \oplus (b_1 \times r)[\{2\}; \epsilon], f(f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)) \oplus b_2 \times r \oplus b_4 \times f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)))[\{3\}; \epsilon]\}.$ 

{13}------------------------------------------------

As we showed in Example 5.3,  $f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r))$  and  $f(f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)) \oplus b_2 \times r \oplus b_4 \times f(r \oplus (b_1 \times r)))$  are unifiable under  $\{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 0, b_4 \mapsto 1\}$ . We can apply the *Combine* rule, and get:

```
\mathscr{C}_{mix}^{2} = \{r[\{1\}; \epsilon], f(r \oplus (b_{1} \times r)) \oplus (b_{1} \times r)[\{2\}; \epsilon], f(f(r \oplus (b_{1} \times r)) \oplus b_{2} \times r \oplus b_{4} \times f(r \oplus (b_{1} \times r)))[\{3\}; \epsilon], r[\{2,3\}, \{b_{1} \mapsto 1, b_{2} \mapsto 0, b_{4} \mapsto 1\}]\}.
```

Obviously, r and r are unifiable. We can apply the *Combine* rule again, and get:

```
\mathscr{C}_{mix}^{3} = \{r[\{1\}; \epsilon], f(r \oplus (b_{1} \times r)) \oplus (b_{1} \times r)[\{2\}; \epsilon], f(f(r \oplus (b_{1} \times r)) \oplus b_{2} \times r \oplus b_{4} \times f(r \oplus (b_{1} \times r)))[\{3\}; \epsilon], r[\{2,3\}, \{b_{1} \mapsto 1, b_{2} \mapsto 0, b_{4} \mapsto 1\}], 0[\{1,2,3\}, \{b_{1} \mapsto 1, b_{2} \mapsto 0, b_{4} \mapsto 1\}]\}.
```

#### Algorithm 5 annotate and saturate

```
1: function ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE(\mathscr{C}_{mix})
2: //\mathscr{C}_{mix} = \{mt_1, mt_2, \dots, mt_n\}
3: 
4: \mathscr{C}^1_{mix} \leftarrow annotate(\mathscr{C}_{mix})
5: Saturate \mathscr{C}^1_{mix} using the Combine rule and Cancel rule.
6: 
7: return \mathscr{C}^n_{mix}, which is the result of the saturation
8: end function
9:
```

#### <span id="page-13-0"></span>5.3 Putting Things Together

**Example 5.5.** Continuing with Example 5.4, we showed that  $0[\{1,2,3\}; \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 0, b_4 \mapsto 1\}] \in \mathscr{C}^3_{mix}$ . According to Lemma E.2, the XOR of all three terms in  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}$  is 0 under  $\{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 0, b_4 \mapsto 1\}$ .

We can compose  $\gamma^{\mathcal{M}} = \{x_1 \mapsto b_1 \times r, x_2 \mapsto b_2 \times r \oplus b_4 \times f(r \oplus x_1)\}$  with  $\{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 0, b_4 \mapsto 1\}$  and get an admissible  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitution:  $\sigma = \{x_1 \mapsto r, x_2 \mapsto f(0)\}$  s.t.  $\oplus \{r, f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_1, f(f(r \oplus x_1) \oplus x_2)\} \sigma = 0$ .

Algorithm 6 describes a function XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY for solving ⊕-rooted local unification. Appendix F proves properties (Soundness, Completeness and Termination) of XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY.

{14}------------------------------------------------

#### **Algorithm 6** Solving ⊕-rooted local unification

```
1: function XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY (\mathcal{M}, \mathcal{C})
            //\mathcal{M} must be an \oplus-mapping.
  2:
            //Assume: \mathscr{C} = \{t_1, t_2, \dots, t_n\}.
  3:
  4:
            (\gamma^{\mathcal{M}}, \mathscr{C}_{mix}) \leftarrow \text{REMOVE-TERM-VARIABLES}(\mathcal{M}, \mathscr{C})
  5:
            \mathscr{C}^n_{mix} \leftarrow \text{ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE}(\mathscr{C}_{mix})
  6:
            result \leftarrow \emptyset
  7:
           for all annotated mixed term amt in \mathscr{C}_{mix}^n do
  8:
                 if amt is of the form 0[I;\tau] \in \mathscr{C}^n_{mix} then
 9:
                       result \leftarrow result \cup (I, \gamma^{\mathscr{M}} \circ \tau)^{-//}/\{t_i | i \in I\} \text{ is } \mathscr{M}_{\oplus}\text{-unifiable with 0 under } \gamma^{\mathscr{M}} \circ \tau
10:
                 end if
11:
            end for
12:
           if result = \emptyset then
13:
                 return not \mathcal{M}_{\oplus}-unifiable
14:
            else
15:
                 return (\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}-unifiable, result)
16:
            end if
17:
18: end function
```

### 6 Discussion

In this paper, we introduce a new unification problem, called local XOR unification. And we present two concrete versions of the local XOR unification problem. f-rooted local unification can be used to analyze modes of operation including Cipher Block Chaining, Propagating Cipher Block Chaining, Accumulated Block Cipher, etc.  $\oplus$ -rooted local unification can be used to analyze modes of operation including Cipher Feedback Mode, Output Feedback Mode, etc.

In Section 5, we discuss a method for solving the  $\oplus$ -rooted local unification problem. The notion of  $dep_f(t)$ , which we introduced in Section 5.2.1, is crucial for efficiency. We require that the Combine rule and the Cancel rule must be applied on maximal terms, which overlap in depth. For this reason, if we apply our method to Output Feedback Mode (or Cipher Feedback Mode), no inference is allowed. The saturation process terminates immediately. This matches the intuition why Output Feedback Mode is secure. In Output Feedback Mode, we generate a block of random bits r, compute  $f(r), f(f(r)), f(f(f(r))), \ldots$ , and use them to mask  $x_1, x_2, x_3, \ldots$  just like one-time pad. The adversary cannot get rid of  $f(r), f(f(r)), f(f(f(r))), \ldots$ . Therefore Output Feedback Mode is secure. Using our method, any inference must be applied on  $f(r), f(f(r)), f(f(f(r))), \ldots$ , since they are the maximum summands in the  $\oplus$ -rooted terms where they occur. Since no two of them can possibly unify and cancel with each other, there is no way to make any progress towards obtaining 0.

The unification problems that we consider in this paper are related to security of modes of operation in the bounded setting, where a bounded number of cipher-text blocks are considered. As ongoing work, we are considering security of modes of operation in the unbounded setting, where we consider an unbounded number of cipher-text blocks. We come up with sufficient conditions for security of modes of operation. We also propose a method for checking those conditions. The idea is based on the notion of  $dep_f$  of a term.

{15}------------------------------------------------

# References

- <span id="page-15-0"></span>[1] Siva Anantharaman, Hai Lin, Christopher Lynch, Paliath Narendran, and Micha¨el Rusinowitch. Cap unification: application to protocol security modulo homomorphic encryption. In AsiaCCS 2010, pages 192–203, 2010.
- <span id="page-15-1"></span>[2] Serdar Erbatur, Santiago Escobar, Deepak Kapur, Zhiqiang Liu, Christopher Lynch, Catherine A. Meadows, Jos´e Meseguer, Paliath Narendran, Sonia Santiago, and Ralf Sasse. Asymmetric unification: A new unification paradigm for cryptographic protocol analysis. In CADE 13, pages 231–248, 2013.
- <span id="page-15-2"></span>[3] Santiago Escobar, Deepak Kapur, Christopher Lynch, Catherine A. Meadows, Jos´e Meseguer, Paliath Narendran, and Ralf Sasse. Protocol analysis in maude-npa using unification modulo homomorphic encryption. In PPDP 2011, pages 65–76, 2011.
- <span id="page-15-5"></span>[4] Antoine Joux, Gwenaelle Martinet, and Frederic Valette. Blockwise-adaptive attackers revisiting the (in)security of some provably secure encryption modes: CBC, GEM, IACBC. In 22nd Annual International Cryptology Conference, pages 17–30, 2002.
- <span id="page-15-6"></span>[5] L. R. Knudsen. Block chaining modes of operation. Reports in Informatics, ISSN 0333-3590, Department of Informatics, University of Bergen, Norway., 2000.
- <span id="page-15-4"></span>[6] Zhiqiang Liu and Christopher Lynch. Efficient general unification for xor with homomorphism. In CADE, pages 407–421, 2011.
- <span id="page-15-3"></span>[7] Catherine Meadows. Symbolic and computational reasoning about cryptographic modes of operation. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/142, 2020. <https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/794>.

{16}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-16-0"></span>A An Algorithm for Checking $\mathcal{M}_f$ -substitution

**Algorithm 7** Checking if some substitution  $\tau$  is an admissible  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -substitution

```
1: function \mathcal{M}_f-ADMISSIBLE(\mathcal{M}, \tau)
          // Checks if \tau is an admissible \mathcal{M}_f-substitution.
        for all x \in domain(\tau) do
 2:
 3:
            if COMPUTABLE-BY-ADVERSARY ((x\tau, \tau, \mathcal{M}, x)) = \text{false then}
                 return false
 4:
            end if
 5:
         end for
 6:
        return true
 7:
 8: end function
 9:
10: function COMPUTABLE-BY-ADVERSARY(t, \tau, \mathcal{M}, x)
         /* Checks if t\tau = t'\tau, for some t' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x. Or intuitively t\tau is computable by an adversary
11:
    when generating x.*/
12:
        if t is an f-rooted term or a constant then
13:
             Check if t\tau \in \mathcal{M}(x)\tau
14:
         else
15:
            if t = h(t') then
16:
                 return COMPUTABLE-BY-ADVERSARY (t', \tau, \mathcal{M}, x)
17:
                          //Assume t = t_1 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n
             else
18:
                 return COMPUTABLE-BY-ADVERSARY(t_1, \tau, \mathcal{M}, x) and \cdots and COMPUTABLE-BY-
19:
    ADVERSARY(t_n, \tau, \mathcal{M}, x)
             end if
20:
         end if
21:
22: end function
```

The function  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -ADMISSIBLE in Algorithm 7 checks if some substitution is an admissible  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -substitution. It is based on the following 3 lemmas. Note that these 3 lemmas require that  $\mathcal{M}$  is an f-mapping. Otherwise if  $\mathcal{M}$  maps each variable to a set of arbitrary terms including  $\oplus$ -rooted terms, the lemmas do not hold. For example, suppose  $\mathcal{M}(x) = \{f(r_1) \oplus f(r_2), f(r_1)\}$ . By Definition 3.2,  $(f(r_1) \oplus f(r_2)) \oplus f(r_1) \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ .  $f(r_2) =_{\oplus} (f(r_1) \oplus f(r_2)) \oplus f(r_1)$ , but for all  $t \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ ,  $f(r_2) \neq_{\oplus} t$ .

<span id="page-16-2"></span>**Lemma A.1.** Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $\theta$  be a substitution. If t is an f-rooted term or a constant, and  $t\theta =_{\oplus} t'\theta$ , for some  $t' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ , then  $t' \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ .

*Proof.* Induction on  $\prec_{\mathscr{M}_f}$  relation.

Suppose that  $t' \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ , this is trivial.

Suppose that t' = h(t''), where  $t'' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ . This contradicts with our assumption that t is an f-rooted term or a constant.

Suppose that  $t' = t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n$ ,  $t_1 \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ ,  $t_2 \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ , ...,  $t_n \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ . We consider three cases. (1) If  $t'\theta$  is an  $\oplus$ -rooted term, then this contradicts with our assumption that t is an f-rooted term or a constant. (2) If  $t'\theta = 0$ , we know that  $0 \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ . (3) If  $t'\theta$  is some  $t_i\theta$ , by induction hypothesis,  $t_i \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ .

{17}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-17-0"></span>**Lemma A.2.** Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $\theta$  be a substitution. If t is an h-rooted term, and  $t\theta =_{\oplus} t'\theta$ , for some  $t' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ , then t' must be of the form h(t''), where  $t'' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ .

*Proof.* Induction on  $\prec_{\mathcal{M}_f}$  relation.

Suppose that  $t' \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ . Since  $\mathcal{M}$  is an f-mapping, t' is either an f-rooted term or a constant, which contradicts with our assumption that t is an h-rooted term.

Suppose that t' = h(t''), where  $t'' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ . This lemma holds trivially.

Suppose that  $t' = t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n$ ,  $t_1 \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ ,  $t_2 \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ , ...,  $t_n \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ . We consider three cases. (1) If  $t'\theta$  is an  $\oplus$ -rooted term, then this contradicts with our assumption that t is an h-rooted term. (2) If  $t'\theta = 0$ , again this contradicts with our assumption that t is an h-rooted term. (3) If  $t'\theta$  is some  $t_i\theta$ , by induction hypothesis,  $t_i$  must be of the form h(t''), where  $t'' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ .

<span id="page-17-1"></span>**Lemma A.3.** Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $\theta$  be a substitution. If t is an  $\oplus$ -rooted term, and  $t\theta =_{\oplus} t'\theta$ , for some  $t' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ , then t' must an  $\oplus$ -rooted term of the form  $t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n$ , where  $t_i \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$   $(1 \leq i \leq n)$ .

*Proof.* Induction on  $\prec_{\mathcal{M}_f}$  relation.

Suppose that  $t' \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ . Since  $\mathcal{M}$  is an f-mapping, t' is either an f-rooted term or a constant, which contradicts with our assumption that t is an  $\oplus$ -rooted term.

Suppose that t' = h(t''),  $t'' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ . This contradicts with our assumption that t is an  $\oplus$ -rooted term.

Suppose that  $t' = t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_m$ , where each  $t_i$  is not an  $\oplus$ -rooted term, and  $t_i \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ . We consider three cases. (1) If  $t'\theta$  is an  $\oplus$ -rooted term, then this lemma holds trivially. (2) If  $t'\theta = 0$ , this contradicts with our assumption that t is an h-rooted term. (3) If  $t'\theta$  is some  $t_i\theta$ , again this contradicts with our assumption that t is an h-rooted term.

**Lemma A.4.** Given any f-mapping  $\mathcal{M}$  and any substitution  $\tau$ ,  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -ADMISSIBLE( $\mathcal{M}, \tau$ ) always terminates, furthermore it returns true if and only if  $\tau$  is an admissible  $\mathcal{M}_f$  substitution.

*Proof.*  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -ADMISSIBLE $(\mathcal{M}, \tau)$  checks if for all  $x \in domain(\mathcal{M})$ ,  $x\tau = t\tau$ , for some  $t \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ . We consider 3 cases:

- (1) If  $x\tau$  is an f-rooted term or a constant, by Lemma A.1, we only need to check if  $x\tau = t'\tau$ , for some  $t' \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ .
  - (2) If  $x\tau = h(t')$ , by Lemma A.2, we only need to check if  $t'\tau = t''\tau$ , for some  $t'' \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ .
- (3) If  $x\tau = t_1 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n$ , by Lemma A.3, we only need to check if  $t_i = t'\tau$ , for some  $t' \prec_{\mathscr{M}_f} x$ . CHECK-TERM $(t, \mathscr{M}, x, \tau)$  is a recursive function. Each time it calls CHECK-TERM $(t', \mathscr{M}, x, \tau)$ , t' must be a subterm of t. So it always terminates. Therefore  $\mathscr{M}_f$ -ADMISSIBLE $(\mathscr{M}, \tau)$  always terminates.

{18}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-18-0"></span>B Properties of f-rooted-unify

In this section, we show that f-rooted-unify is sound, complete and terminating. Therefore it is a decision procedure for f-rooted local unification, which we introduced in Section [3.1.](#page-2-0)

### B.1 Termination

We use BOP(τ ) to denote the set of bad open positions in τ . So

BOP(τ ) = {(xτ, p) | (xτ, p) is a bad open position in τ}

The following theorem states that for any substitution τ , I1(τ ) always terminates. The idea that each inference either instantiates a variable in domain(M) or fixes a bad open position in τ .

We define M<sup>i</sup> = (|domain(M) − domain(τi)|, |BOP(τi)|).

<span id="page-18-1"></span>Theorem B.1 (Termination). Given an f-mapping, two f-rooted terms t<sup>1</sup> and t2, f-rootedunify(M, t1, t2) always terminates.

Proof. We only need to show that fix(τ ) terminates, where τ ∈ CSU⊕(t<sup>1</sup> ?= t2).

For any i > 0, τi+1 = P rev(τ<sup>i</sup> , σi) or τi+1 = Cancel(τ<sup>i</sup> , σi). We will show that M1, M2, M3, . . . is a decreasing sequence. There are two cases to consider.

Case 1. Suppose that some variable in domain(M) is instantiated by applying either the P rev rule or the Cancel rule at the i-th iteration. |domain(M) − domain(τi+1)| < |domain(M) − domain(τi)|, therefore Mi+1 < M<sup>i</sup> .

Case 2. Suppose that no variable in domain(M) is instantiated at the i-th iteration. This means that Domain(σi) contains only new variables that are generated by the procedure for unification modulo XOR. In this case, |domain(M)−domain(τi+1)| = |domain(M)−domain(τi)|, but both the P rev rule and the Cancel rule fix at least one bad open position in τ<sup>i</sup> , so BOP(τi+1) < BOP(τi). Therefore Mi+1 < M<sup>i</sup> .

Since M1, M2, M3, . . . is well founded, fix(τ ) eventually terminates.

### B.2 Soundness

Theorem B.2 (Soundness). Given an f-mapping, two f-rooted terms t<sup>1</sup> and t2, if f-rootedunify(M, t1, t2) returns a substitution τ , then τ is a M<sup>f</sup> -unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t2.

Proof. Since line 16 of Algorithm [2](#page-7-0) checks if τ is an admissible M<sup>f</sup> -substitution, if f-rootedunify(M, t1, t2) returns τ , then τ must be an admissible M<sup>f</sup> -substitution.

We now show that τ is a unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t<sup>2</sup> by induction. Initially this is true, since τ ∈ CSU⊕(t<sup>1</sup> =<sup>⊕</sup> t2). Assume that τ<sup>i</sup> is a unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t2. If the P rev rule is used at the i-th iteration, τi+1 = P rev(τ<sup>i</sup> , σi) = τiσ<sup>i</sup> . If the Cancel rule is used at the i-th iteration, τi+1 = Cancel(τ<sup>i</sup> , σi) = τiσ<sup>i</sup> . In both cases, τi+1 is an instance of τ<sup>i</sup> . Since τ<sup>i</sup> is a unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t2, τi+1 is also a unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t2.

Therefore τ is a M<sup>f</sup> -unifier of t<sup>1</sup> and t2.

### B.3 Completeness

f-rooted-unify can find any minimum M<sup>f</sup> -unifier, which we will define later. To illustrate the idea, let us consider the following example.

{19}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-19-0"></span>Example B.1. In Example 4.2,

```
\tau = \{x_2 \mapsto h(r_1) \oplus f(0), x_1 \mapsto r_1, x_4 \mapsto f(r_1 \oplus r_2), x_3 \mapsto r_1\} \text{ is a } \mathcal{M}_f\text{-unifier of } f(x_2) \text{ and } f(h(x_3) \oplus f(0) \oplus f(x_4) \oplus f(f(x_3 \oplus r_2))). \text{ But there are other } \mathcal{M}_f\text{-unifiers, e.g.:}
\tau' = \{x_2 \mapsto h(h(r_1)) \oplus f(0), x_1 \mapsto r_1, x_4 \mapsto f(r_1 \oplus r_2), x_3 \mapsto h(r_1)\}
\tau'' = \{x_2 \mapsto h(h(h(r_1))) \oplus f(0), x_1 \mapsto r_1, x_4 \mapsto f(r_1 \oplus r_2), x_3 \mapsto h(h(r_1))\}.
```

We want to be able to say that  $\tau$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier, but  $\tau'$  and  $\tau''$  are not minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifiers.

First we can transform one substitution  $\tau$  into another substitution  $\tau^L$ , which is defined as follows.

**Definition B.1.** Let  $\tau$  be a substitution, L be a list of open positions in  $\tau$ .  $\tau^L$  is a substitution, and

- $x\tau^L = x\tau[t]|_p$ , where  $(x\tau, p) \in L$ , t is a subterm of  $x\tau|_p$  and  $t \neq x\tau|_p$ .
- $y\tau^L = y\tau$ , if  $(y\tau, p) \in L$ .

We use  $\mathcal{R}(\tau)$  to denote the set of all possible substitutions that can be obtained by the transformation described above.

```
\mathcal{R}(\tau) = \{ \tau^L \mid L \text{ is a list of open positions.} \}
```

<span id="page-19-1"></span>**Definition B.2.** Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  be two f-rooted terms.  $\tau$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  if

- (1)  $\tau$  is a  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .
- (2)  $\forall \tau' \in \mathcal{R}(\tau), \tau'$  is not a  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

Let us consider Example B.1. By Definition B.2,  $\tau$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $f(x_2)$  and  $f(h(x_3) \oplus f(0) \oplus f(x_4) \oplus f(f(x_3 \oplus r_2)))$ . But  $\tau'$  is not, since  $\tau'^{\{(x_2\tau',1),(x_3\tau',\lambda)\}} = \tau$ , and  $\tau$  is a  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

In the following definition, we define potential  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -minimum unifiers of two terms  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ . And we will show that if we start from a potential  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -minimum unifier  $\tau$  of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , we can keep composing  $\tau$  with some other substitution by making inferences, until we get a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

**Definition B.3.** Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  be two f-rooted terms.  $\tau$  is a potential  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  if there exists a substitution  $\sigma$  s.t.  $\tau \sigma$  is a  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .  $\tau$  is a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  if there exists a substitution  $\sigma$  s.t.  $\tau \sigma$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  be two f-rooted terms. By Lemma 4.1, if  $\theta$  is a  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ ,  $\theta$  should not contain any bad open position. If some substitution  $\tau$  contains some bad open position  $(x\tau,p)$ , it can be dealt with in two possible ways. If  $x\tau|_p$  is a summand of a term t, it is possible that  $x\tau|_p$  unifies with some other summand of t under some substitution  $\sigma$ , therefore gets cancelled. In Example 4.2, this is how we deal with  $(x_1\tau,3)$  and  $(x_1\tau,4)$ . The other possibility is that we can extend  $(x\tau,p)$ , and get some bad innermost open position  $(x\tau,p')$ . By Lemma A.1, we only need to unify  $x\tau|_{p'}$  with some term  $t' \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ . In Example 4.2, this is how we deal with  $(x_2\tau,1)$ . We extend it to  $(x_2\tau,1.1)$ , which is a bad innermost open position. We unify  $x_2\tau|_{1.1}$  with  $r_1$ , which is in  $\mathcal{M}(x_2)$ .

<span id="page-19-2"></span>**Lemma B.3.** Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $\tau$  be a substitution. For any bad open position  $(x\tau, p)$  in  $\tau$ ,  $(x\tau, p)$  can be extended to some bad innermost open position  $(x\tau, p')$  in  $\tau$ .

{20}------------------------------------------------

*Proof.* Induction on len(p') - len(p).

If  $x\tau|_p$  is a variable, constant, or an f-rooted term,  $(x\tau,p)$  is already a bad innermost open position. So len(p') - len(p) = 0.

Suppose that  $x\tau|_p = h(t_1)$ .  $(x\tau, p.1)$  must also be bad open position in  $\tau$ . Assume that  $(x\tau, p.1)$  can be extended to a bad innermost open position  $(x\tau, p')$  in  $\tau$  by appending  $i_1.i_2...i_m$  to p.1. Therefore (t, p) can be extended to the same bad innermost open position (t, p') by appending  $1.i_1.i_2...i_m$  to p.

Suppose that  $x\tau|_p = t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n$ . There must exist some i s.t.  $(x\tau, p.i)$  is also a bad open position in  $\tau$ . Assume that  $(x\tau, p.i)$  can be extended to a bad innermost open position  $(x\tau, p')$  in  $\tau$  by appending  $i_1.i_2...i_m$  to p.i.  $(x\tau, p)$  can be extended to the same bad innermost open position  $(x\tau, p')$  by appending  $i.i_1.i_2...i_m$  to p.

<span id="page-20-1"></span>**Lemma B.4.** Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  be two f-rooted terms. If  $\tau$  is not a  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , and  $\tau\sigma$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , then for any bad open position  $(x\tau, p)$ , at least one of the following is true.

- (1)  $(x\tau, p)$  can be extended to some bad innermost open position  $(x\tau, p')$  s.t.  $(x\tau \mid_{p'} =_{\oplus} t\tau)\sigma$ , for some  $t \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ .
- (2)  $x\tau \mid_p$  is a summand of an  $\oplus$ -rooted term t, t has some other summands  $t'_1, t'_2, \ldots, t'_m$  s.t.  $(x\tau \mid_p \oplus t'_1 \oplus t'_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t'_m)\sigma = 0$ .

*Proof.* Let  $(x\tau,p)$  be a bad open position in  $\tau$ . By Lemma B.3,  $(x\tau,p)$  can be extended to some bad innermost open position  $(x\tau,p')$ . If (2) does not hold, then  $(x(\tau\sigma),p)$  is also an open position. We know that  $\tau\sigma$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ . By Lemma 4.1,  $x(\tau\sigma)|_{p'} =_{\oplus} t(\tau\sigma)$ , for some  $t \prec_{\mathcal{M}_f} x$ . So  $(x\tau|_{p'} =_{\oplus} t\tau)\sigma$ . We now show that  $t \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ . Since  $(x\tau,p')$  is an innermost open position,  $x\tau|_{p'}$  can only be a variable or an f-rooted term, or a constant.

Case 1.  $x\tau \mid_{p'}$  is a constant or f-rooted term. By Lemma A.1,  $t \in \mathcal{M}(x)$ .

Case 2.  $x\tau \mid_{p'} = x'$ . Then  $x' \notin domain(\tau)$  (Otherwise,  $x\tau \mid_{p'} = x'\tau$ ). Since  $\tau\sigma$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier,  $t \in \mathcal{M}(x)$  (In order words, t is not built up from terms in  $\mathcal{M}(x)$  using h and  $\oplus$ ).  $\square$ 

The following Lemma B.5 is our key lemma for proving completeness. According to Lemma B.5, a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier is either good enough in the sense that it is already a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier, or we can take an inference step to get another substitution, which remains to be a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier. According to Theorem B.1, there cannot be infinitely many inference steps, eventually we must get a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier.

<span id="page-20-0"></span>**Lemma B.5.** Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping.  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  are two f-rooted terms. If  $\tau$  is a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , then at least one of the following must be true:

- (1)  $\tau$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .
- (2) The Prev rule is applicable.  $Prev(\tau, \delta)$  is a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .
- (3) The Cancel rule is applicable. Cancel  $(\tau, \delta)$  is a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

*Proof.* If (1) does not hold, by Lemma 4.1, there must be some bad open position  $(x\tau, p)$ . By Lemma B.4, there are two cases to consider.

Case 1:  $(x\tau,p)$  can be extended to some innermost open position  $(x\tau,p')$  s.t.  $(x\tau\mid_{p'}=_{\oplus}t\tau)\sigma$ , for some  $t\in \mathcal{M}(x)$ . In this case, we use the Prev rule and get  $Prev(\tau,\delta)$ , where  $\delta\in CSU_{\oplus}(x\tau\mid_{p'}\stackrel{?}{=}t\tau)$ .  $\sigma=\delta\delta'$ , for some  $\delta'$ . Since  $\tau\sigma$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , so is  $\tau\delta\delta'$ . Therefore  $\tau\delta$ , which is  $Prev(\tau,\delta)$ , is a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

{21}------------------------------------------------

Case 2:  $x\tau \mid_p$  is a summand of an  $\oplus$ -rooted term t, t has some other summands  $t'_1, t'_2, \ldots, t'_m$  s.t.  $(x\tau \mid_p \oplus t'_1 \oplus t'_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t'_m)\sigma =_{\oplus} 0$ . In this case, we use the Cancel rule and get  $Cancel(\tau, \delta)$ , where  $\delta \in CSU_{\oplus}((x\tau \mid_p \oplus t'_1 \oplus t'_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t'_m) \stackrel{?}{=} 0)$ .  $\sigma = \delta\delta'$ , for some  $\delta'$ . Since  $\tau\sigma$  is a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , so is  $\tau\delta\delta'$ . Therefore  $\tau\delta$ , which is  $Cancel(\tau, \delta)$ , is a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

**Theorem B.6** (Completeness). Let  $\mathcal{M}$  be an f-mapping,  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  be two f-rooted terms. If  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  are  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifiable, then f-ROOTED-UNIFY( $\mathcal{M}, t_1, t_2$ ) outputs a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

*Proof.* If  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  are  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifiable, then there exists a substitution  $\tau \in CSU_{\oplus}(t_1 \stackrel{?}{=} t_2)$  s.t.  $\tau$  is a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier. By Lemma B.5, the loop invariant at Line 13 in Algorithm 2 is that  $\tau$  is always a potential minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ . By Theorem B.1, the loop (Line 13 through Line 15) in Algorithm 2 eventually terminates, at which point no rule applies to  $\tau$ . Therefore  $\tau$  must be a minimum  $\mathcal{M}_f$ -unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

{22}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-22-0"></span>C Properties of remove-term-variables

In this appendix, we show that if REMOVE-TERM-VARIABLES( $\mathcal{M}, \mathcal{C}$ ) (from Section 5.1) returns  $(\gamma^{\mathcal{M}}, \mathcal{C}_{mix})$ , then  $\gamma^{\mathcal{M}} \circ \tau$  is always an admissible  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitution, where  $\tau$  is any Boolean substitution.

In Section 5.1, we define an operator  $\bullet$ . Let  $\vec{B} = \langle b_1, b_2, \dots, b_n \rangle$  be a vector of Boolean variables,  $T \bullet \vec{B}$  is defined to be  $b_1 \times t_1 \oplus b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \dots b_n \times t_n$ .  $T \bullet \vec{B}$  is called a *linear combination* of  $t_1, t_2, \dots, t_n$ . T defines a space of terms  $SPACE_T$ . A term  $t \in SPACE_T$  if and only if there exists some Boolean vector  $\vec{B}$  such that  $t = T \bullet \vec{B}$ . Let  $\vec{B_1} = \langle b_{11}, b_{12}, \dots, b_{1n} \rangle$  and  $\vec{B_2} = \langle b_{21}, b_{22}, \dots, b_{2n} \rangle$  be two vectors. We define  $\vec{B_1} \oplus \vec{B_2}$  to be  $\langle b_{11} \oplus b_{21}, b_{12} \oplus b_{22}, \dots, b_{1n} \oplus b_{2n} \rangle$ . The following two lemmas state some basic properties about spaces.

<span id="page-22-4"></span>**Lemma C.1.** Let T be a set of terms. If  $t_i \in SPACE_T$  for all  $1 \le i \le n$ , then  $t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n \in SPACE_T$ .

*Proof.* For all i, there exists  $\vec{B_i}$  such that  $T \bullet \vec{B_i} = t_i$ . So  $T \bullet (\vec{B_1} \oplus \vec{B_2} \oplus \ldots \oplus \vec{B_n}) = t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n$ . Therefore,  $t_1 \oplus t_2 \oplus \ldots \oplus t_n \in SPACE_T$ .

<span id="page-22-1"></span>**Lemma C.2.** Suppose that  $T_1 \subseteq T_2$ , then  $SPACE_{T_1} \subseteq SPACE_{T_2}$ .

```
Proof. Suppose that T_1 = \{t_1, t_2, ..., t_m\}, T_2 = \{t_1, t_2, ..., t_m, t_{m+1}, ..., t_n\}.
Take any t \in SPACE_{T_1}. t = T_1 \bullet \langle b_1, b_2, ..., b_m \rangle. Then t = T_2 \bullet \langle b_1, b_2, ..., b_m, 0, ..., 0 \rangle. Therefore t \in SPACE_{T_2}.
```

Given any  $\oplus$ -mapping  $\mathcal{M}$ , we require that if i < j, then  $\mathcal{M}(x_i) \subseteq \mathcal{M}(x_j)$ . By Lemma C.2, if i < j, then  $SPACE_{\mathcal{M}(x_i)} \subseteq SPACE_{\mathcal{M}(x_j)}$ .

We define  $\gamma^*$  to be  $\{x_1 \mapsto t'_1, x_2 \mapsto t'_2, \dots, x_m \mapsto t'_m\}$ , where  $t'_i = \mathcal{M}(x_1) \bullet \vec{B_i}$ , and  $\vec{B_i}$  is a vector of fresh Boolean variables. Let  $\tau^{\mathcal{M}}$  be the set of all Boolean substitutions for all the Boolean variables occurring in  $\vec{B_i}$   $(1 \leq i \leq m)$ . We define  $\sigma^{\mathcal{M}}$  to be  $\{\gamma^* \circ \tau | \tau \in \tau^{\mathcal{M}}\}$ . We define  $\hat{\sigma}$  to be  $\{\gamma^{\mathcal{M}} \circ \tau | \tau \in \tau_{\mathcal{M}}\}$ . We show that  $\hat{\sigma}$  is the set of all admissible  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitution. We do this in two steps. We first show that  $\sigma^{\mathcal{M}}$  is the set of all admissible  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitutions in Lemma C.3. We then show that  $\sigma^{\mathcal{M}} = \hat{\sigma}$  in Lemma C.6. Lemma C.4 and Lemma C.5 are used to prove Lemma C.6.

<span id="page-22-2"></span>**Lemma C.3.**  $\sigma^{\mathcal{M}}$  is the set of all admissible  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitutions.

*Proof.* Take any admissible  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitution  $\sigma_1$ ,  $\sigma_1$  maps  $x_i$  to the XOR of terms in some subset  $S_i$  of  $\mathcal{M}(x_i)$ . Assume that  $\mathcal{M}(x_i) = \{s_1, \ldots, s_n\}$ .

Take any substitution  $\sigma_2$  from  $\sigma^{\mathcal{M}}$ . For any  $x_i$ ,  $\sigma_2$  maps  $x_i$  to  $\mathcal{M}(x_i) \bullet \vec{B_i}$ .

We set  $B_{ij}$  to 1 if and only if  $s_i \in S_i$ , where  $B_{ij}$  is the j-th component of  $\vec{B_i}$ . Then  $\sigma_1 = \sigma_2$ .

<span id="page-22-3"></span>**Lemma C.4.** Given any substitution  $\sigma$  from  $\sigma^{\mathcal{M}}$ ,  $\forall i$ ,  $SPACE_{\mathcal{M}(x_i)\sigma} \subseteq SPACE_{NonVar(\mathcal{M}(x_i))\sigma}$ .

*Proof.* Induction on i.

 $\mathcal{M}(x_1)$  only contains ground terms, therefore  $\mathcal{M}(x_1)\sigma = NonVar(\mathcal{M}(x_1))\sigma$ . The lemma holds trivially.

Assume that  $SPACE_{\mathcal{M}(x_j)\sigma} \subseteq SPACE_{NonVar(\mathcal{M}(x_j))\sigma}$ , for all j < i. We show that for all  $t \in \mathcal{M}(x_i)\sigma$ ,  $t \in SPACE_{NonVar(\mathcal{M}(x_i))\sigma}$ . Therefore any linear combination of terms in  $\mathcal{M}(x_i)\sigma$  is also in  $SPACE_{NonVar(\mathcal{M}(x_i))\sigma}$  by Lemma C.1. Hence  $SPACE_{\mathcal{M}(x_i)\sigma} \subseteq SPACE_{NonVar(\mathcal{M}(x_i))\sigma}$ . We consider two cases.

{23}------------------------------------------------

Case 1. If t ∈ M(xi−1)σ, then t is in SP ACEM(xi−1)σ, therefore also in SP ACENonV ar(M(xi−1))<sup>σ</sup> by induction hypothesis.

Case 2. Take any t ∈ M(xi) − M(xi−1), tσ = NonV ar(t)σ ⊕ V ar(t)σ. For any variable x<sup>j</sup> in V ar(t), j < i. Therefore xjσ ∈ SP ACEM(x<sup>j</sup> )σ, where j < i. By induction hypothesis, xjσ ∈ SP ACENonV ar(M(x<sup>j</sup> ))σ. By Lemma [C.2,](#page-22-1) xjσ ∈ SP ACENonV ar(M(xi))σ. So V ar(t)σ ∈ SP ACENonV ar(M(xi))σ. We know that NonV ar(t)σ ∈ SP ACENonV ar(M(xi))σ. By Lemma [C.1,](#page-22-4) tσ ∈ SP ACENonV ar(M(xi))σ.

<span id="page-23-1"></span>Lemma C.5. Given any substitution σ from σˆ, ∀i, SP ACENonV ar(M(xi))<sup>σ</sup> ⊆ SP ACEM(xi)σ. Proof. Induction on i.

M(x1) only contains ground terms, therefore NonV ar(M(x1))σ = M(x1)σ. The lemma hold trivially.

Assume that SP ACENonV ar(M(x<sup>j</sup> ))<sup>σ</sup> ⊆ SP ACEM(x<sup>j</sup> )σ, for all j < i. We show that for any t ∈ NonV ar(M(xi))σ, t ∈ SP ACEM(xi)σ. Therefore any linear combination of terms in NonV ar(M(xi))σ is also in SP ACEM(xi)<sup>σ</sup> by Lemma [C.1.](#page-22-4) Hence SP ACENonV ar(M(xi))<sup>σ</sup> ⊆ SP ACEM(xi)σ. We consider two cases.

Case 1. If t ∈ NonV ar(M(xi−1))σ, then t is in SP ACENonV ar(M(xi−1))σ, therefore also in SP ACEM(xi−1)<sup>σ</sup> by induction hypothesis.

Case 2. Take any t ∈ M(xi)−M(xi−1), NonV ar(t)σ = tσ⊕V ar(t)σ. For any variable x<sup>j</sup> in V ar(t), j < i. Therefore xjσ ∈ SP ACENonV ar(M(x<sup>j</sup> ))σ, where j < i. By induction hypothesis, xjσ ∈ SP ACEM(x<sup>j</sup> )σ. By Lemma [C.2,](#page-22-1) xjσ ∈ SP ACEM(xi)σ. So V ar(t)σ ∈ SP ACEM(xi)σ. We know that tσ ∈ SP ACEM(xi)σ. By Lemma [C.1,](#page-22-4) NonV ar(t)σ ∈ SP ACEM(xi)σ.

### <span id="page-23-0"></span>Lemma C.6. σ<sup>M</sup> = ˆσ.

Proof. Take any σ ∈ σM, for any x<sup>i</sup> ∈ domain(σ), xiσ is some term t in SP ACEM(xi)σ. By Lemma [C.4,](#page-22-3) t is also in SP ACENonV ar(M(xi))σ. Therefore t ∈ σˆ.

Take any σ ∈ σˆ, for any x<sup>i</sup> ∈ domain(σ), xiσ is some term t in SP ACENonV ar(M(xi))σ. By Lemma [C.5,](#page-23-1) t is also in SP ACEM(xi)σ. Therefore t ∈ σM.

<span id="page-23-2"></span>Lemma C.7. σˆ is the set of all admissible M⊕-substitutions.

Proof. By Lemma [C.3,](#page-22-2) σ<sup>M</sup> is the set of all admissible M⊕-substitutions. By Lemma [C.6,](#page-23-0) σ<sup>M</sup> = ˆσ.

{24}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-24-0"></span>D Properties of boolean-unify

**Lemma D.1** (Soundness). Let  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  be two terms without term variables. If BOOLEAN-UNIFY  $(t_1, t_2)$  returns  $\tau$ , then  $\tau$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

*Proof.* We prove an invariant by induction, and we will use this invariant to prove this lemma. Here is the invariant. For each state st in a trace of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , if  $st = Eqs|\tau$  and Eqs is unifiable, then  $\tau \cup \tau'$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , where  $\tau'$  is any Boolean unifier of S.

If st is the initial state, the invariant holds trivially.

Assume that the invariant holds for  $st_i = Eqs_i|\tau_i$ . Let  $\tau_i'$  be any Boolean unifier of  $Eqs_i$ , then  $\tau_i' \cup \tau_i$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ . We apply an inference and get  $st_{i+1} = Eqs_{i+1}|\tau_{i+1}$ . We want to show that  $\tau_{i+1}' \cup \tau_{i+1}$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , where  $\tau_{i+1}'$  is any Boolean unifier of  $Eqs_{i+1}$ . We consider 4 cases:

- (1) If the *Remove* rule is applied,  $\tau_{i+1} = \tau_i$  and  $\tau'_{i+1} = \tau'_i$ . Since  $\tau'_i \cup \tau_i$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ ,  $\tau'_{i+1} \cup \tau_{i+1}$  is also a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .
- (2) If the *Disappear* rule is applied on a term  $b \times t$ , If for any Boolean unifier  $\tau'_i$  of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ ,  $b\tau'_i \neq 0$ ,  $S_{i+1}$  is not unifiable, the invariant holds trivially. Otherwise,  $\tau_{i+1} = \tau_i \cup \{b \mapsto 0\}$ ,  $\tau'_i = \tau'_{i+1} \cup \{b \mapsto 0\}$ . Since  $\tau'_i \cup \tau_i$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ ,  $\tau'_{i+1} \cup \tau_{i+1}$  is also a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .
- (3) If the  $Duplicate_r$  rule is applied on  $b_1 \times r$  and  $b_2 \times r$ . If for any Boolean unifier  $\tau'_i$  of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ ,  $b_1\tau'_i \neq 1$  or  $b_2\tau'_i \neq 1$ ,  $S_{i+1}$  is not unifiable, the invariant holds trivially. Otherwise,  $\tau_{i+1} = \tau_i \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ ,  $\tau'_i = \tau'_{i+1} \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ . Since  $\tau'_i \cup \tau_i$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ ,  $\tau'_{i+1} \cup \tau_{i+1}$  is also a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .
- (4) If the  $Duplicate_f$  rule is applied on  $b_1 \times f(t)$  and  $b_2 \times f(t')$ . If for any Boolean unifier  $\tau'_i$  of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ ,  $b_1\tau'_i \neq 1$  or  $b_2\tau'_i \neq 1$ ,  $S_{i+1}$  is not unifiable, the invariant holds trivially. Otherwise,  $\tau_{i+1} = \tau_i \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ ,  $\tau'_i = \tau'_{i+1} \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ . Since  $\tau'_i \cup \tau_i$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ ,  $\tau'_{i+1} \cup \tau_{i+1}$  is also a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

The invariant holds for all states in the trace. In particular, it holds for the final state  $st_n = \emptyset | \tau_n$ . Therefore  $\tau_n$ , which is what BOOLEAN-UNIFY $(t_1, t_2)$  returns, is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

**Lemma D.2** (Termination). Let  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  be two terms without term variables, any trace of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  is finite.

*Proof.* Each inference decrease the total occurrences of f symbol and constants.

If the Disappear rule is used, an f symbol or a constant disappears.

If the  $Duplicate_r$  rule is used, two duplicate constants are cancelled, which decreases the total occurrences by at least 2.

If the  $Duplicate_f$  rule is used, the total occurrences decreases by at least 2.

If the *Remove* rule is used, two 0's are removed, the total occurrences decreases by 2.  $\Box$ 

**Lemma D.3** (Completeness). Let  $t_1$  and  $t_2$  be two terms without term variables. If  $\tau$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ , then BOOLEAN-UNIFY $(t_1, t_2)$  returns  $\tau$  (for some nondeterministic choices of the inference rules).

*Proof.* Consider a trace  $st_1, st_2, \ldots, st_n$ , where  $st_1 = \{t_1 \oplus t_2 \stackrel{?}{=} 0\} | \epsilon$ . We show that for any i, if  $st_i$  is of the form  $Eqs_i | \tau_i$ , where  $Eqs_i \neq \emptyset$  and  $Eqs_i$  is unifiable under some  $\tau'_i$ , then we can make an inference to get  $Eqs_{i+1} | \tau_{i+1}$ , where  $Eqs_{i+1}$  is unifiable under some  $\tau'_{i+1}$  and  $\tau_i \cup \tau'_i = \tau_{i+1} \cup \tau'_{i+1}$ .

{25}------------------------------------------------

Consider the first equation eq in  $Eqs_i$ . Suppose that eq is  $0 \stackrel{?}{=} 0$ , we apply the Remove rule. Otherwise suppose that eq is of the form  $b_1 \times t \oplus t' \stackrel{?}{=} 0$ . We consider 3 cases.

- (1) If  $b_1 \tau_i' = 0$ , we apply the *Disappear* rule.  $\tau_{i+1} = \tau_i \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 0\}, \ \tau_i' = \tau_{i+1}' \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 0\},$  therefore  $\tau_i \cup \tau_i' = \tau_{i+1} \cup \tau_{i+1}'$ .
- therefore  $\tau_i \cup \tau'_i = \tau_{i+1} \cup \tau'_{i+1}$ .

  (2) If  $b_1 \tau'_i = 1$  and t is a constant r, then we apply the  $Duplicate_r$  rule on  $b_1 \times r$  and  $b_2 \times r$ , which is a summand of t'.  $\tau_{i+1} = \tau_i \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ ,  $\tau'_i = \tau'_{i+1} \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ , therefore  $\tau_i \cup \tau'_i = \tau_{i+1} \cup \tau'_{i+1}$ .
- (3) If  $b_1\tau'_i = 1$  and t is of the form f(t''), then we apply the  $Duplicate_r$  rule on  $b_1 \times f(t'')$  and  $b_2 \times f(t''')$ , which is a summand of t'.  $\tau_{i+1} = \tau_i \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}, \tau'_i = \tau'_{i+1} \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\},$  therefore  $\tau_i \cup \tau'_i = \tau_{i+1} \cup \tau'_{i+1}$ .

So  $\tau_1 \cup \tau_1' = \tau_2 \cup \tau_2' = \dots = \tau_n \cup \tau_n'$ .

For the initial state,  $\tau_1 = \epsilon$ ,  $\tau_1' = \tau$ . For the final state  $\tau_n' = \epsilon$ . Therefore,  $\tau_n = \tau$ , which is what BOOLEAN-UNIFY $(t_1, t_2)$  returns.

{26}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-26-0"></span>E Properties of annotate-and-saturate

In this appendix, we prove properties of ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE.

Throughout the process of saturating  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^1$ , we maintain the following invariant.

<span id="page-26-2"></span>**Lemma E.1.** Let  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^1 = \{mt_1[\{1\}; \epsilon], mt_2[\{2\}; \epsilon], \dots, mt_n[\{n\}; \epsilon]\}$ . For all i, if  $t[I; \tau] \in \mathscr{C}_{mix}^i$ , then  $(\oplus \{mt_i | i \in I\})\tau =_{\oplus} t$ .

*Proof.* We prove this lemma by induction on i.

When i = 1, this is trivial.

Case 1: Suppose that  $b_1 \times t_1 \oplus \Gamma_1[I_1; \tau_1]$  and  $b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \Gamma_2[I_2; \tau_2]$  are in  $\mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$ , we apply the Combine rule and get  $\Gamma_1 \oplus \Gamma_2[I_1 \cup I_2; \tau_1 \cup \tau_2 \cup \tau_3 \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}]$ , where  $\tau_3$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

By induction hypothesis,  $(\oplus \{tm_i|i \in I_1\})\tau_1 =_{\oplus} b_1 \times t_1 \oplus \Gamma_1$ , and  $(\oplus \{tm_i|i \in I_2\})\tau_2 =_{\oplus} b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \Gamma_2$ . So  $(\oplus \{tm_i|i \in I_1 \cup I_2\})\tau =_{\oplus} \Gamma_1 \oplus \Gamma_2$ , where  $\tau = \tau_1 \cup \tau_2 \cup \tau_3 \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ .

Case 2: Suppose that  $b_1 \times t_1 \oplus b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \Gamma[I; \tau_1]$  is in  $\mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$ , we apply the Cancel rule and get  $\Gamma[I; \tau_1 \cup \tau_2 \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}]$ , where  $\tau_2$  is a Boolean unifier of  $t_1$  and  $t_2$ .

By induction hypothesis,  $(\oplus \{tm_i | i \in I\})\tau_1 =_{\oplus} b_1 \times t_1 \oplus b_2 \times t_2 \oplus \Gamma$ . So  $(\oplus \{tm_i | i \in I\})\tau = \Gamma$ , where  $\tau = \tau_1 \cup \tau_2 \cup \{b_1 \mapsto 1, b_2 \mapsto 1\}$ .

The following lemma follows directly from Lemma E.1

<span id="page-26-1"></span>**Lemma E.2** (Soundness). Let  $\mathscr{C}_{mix} = \{mt_1, mt_2, \dots, mt_n\}$ . If  $0[I; \tau] \in \text{ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE}(\mathscr{C}_{mix})$ , then  $(\oplus \{mt_i | i \in I\})\tau = 0$ .

*Proof.* According to Lemma E.1, since  $0[I;\tau] \in \mathscr{C}^n_{mix}$ ,  $(\oplus \{mt_i | i \in I\})\tau = 0$ .

Let  $\mathscr{C}_{mix} = \{mt_1, mt_2, \dots, mt_n\}$ . Let  $BVar(\mathscr{C}_{mix})$  denotes the set of all Boolean variables in  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}$ . We define the following set  $\mathscr{S}$ . Intuitively  $\mathscr{S}$  is the set of all possible things that can occur in  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^n$ .  $\mathscr{S}$  is finite, therefore the saturation process always terminates.

$$\mathcal{S} = \{ (\bigoplus \{mt_i | i \in I\}) \tau \mid I \in \{1, 2, \dots, n\}, domain(\tau) \subseteq BVar(\mathscr{C}_{mix}) \}.$$

<span id="page-26-4"></span>**Lemma E.3** (Termination). For any set of mixed terms  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}$ , ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE ( $\mathscr{C}_{mix}$ ) always terminates.

*Proof.* After inference step i,  $\mathcal{S} - \mathcal{C}^{i}_{mix}$  becomes smaller than  $\mathcal{S} - \mathcal{C}^{i-1}_{mix}$ . Since  $\mathcal{S}$  is a finite set, the saturation process always terminates.

**Definition E.1.** Let  $\mathscr{C}^1_{mix} = \{mt_1[\{1\}; \epsilon], mt_2[\{2\}; \epsilon], \ldots, mt_n[\{n\}; \epsilon]\}$ . Let I be a set of integers,  $\tau$  be a Boolean substitution.  $\mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$  is solvable under  $(I, \tau)$  if  $\mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$  contains  $mt_{i_1}[I_{i_1}; \tau_{i_1}], mt_{i_2}[I_{i_2}; \tau_{i_2}], \ldots mt_{i_m}[I_{i_m}; \tau_{i_m}]$  s.t.

- (i)  $I_{i_1} \cup I_{i_2} \cup \ldots \cup I_{i_m} = I$ , and  $\forall p, q, p \neq q \rightarrow I_{i_p} \cap I_{i_q} = \emptyset$ .
- (ii) There exists some  $\tau'$  s.t.  $(mt_{i_1} \oplus mt_{i_2} \oplus \dots mt_{i_m})\tau' = 0$  and  $\tau' \cup \tau_{i_1} \cup \dots \cup \tau_{i_m} = \tau$ .

The following lemma is used to prove Lemma E.5

<span id="page-26-3"></span>**Lemma E.4.** For all i, if  $\mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$  is solvable under  $(I,\tau)$ , then one of the following must be true

- (1)  $0[I;\tau] \in \mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$ .
- (2) An inference rule is applicable, and  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^{i+1}$  is also solvable under  $(I,\tau)$ .

{27}------------------------------------------------

*Proof.* Since  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^i$  is solvable under  $(I, \tau)$ ,  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^i$  contains  $mt_{i_1}[I_{i_1}; \tau_{i_1}], mt_{i_2}[I_{i_2}; \tau_{i_2}], \dots mt_{i_m}[I_{i_m}; \tau_{i_m}]$  s.t.

- (i)  $I_{i_1} \cup I_{i_2} \cup \ldots \cup I_{i_m} = I$ , and  $\forall p, q, p \neq q \rightarrow I_{i_p} \cap I_{i_q} = \emptyset$ .
- (ii) There exists some  $\tau'$  s.t.  $(mt_{i_1} \oplus mt_{i_2} \oplus \dots mt_{i_m}) \dot{\tau}' = 0$  and  $\tau' \cup \tau_{i_1} \cup \dots \cup \tau_{i_m} = \tau$ .

If  $0[I;\tau] \notin \mathscr{C}_{mix}^i$ , pick a maximum summand  $b \times t$  of  $t_{i_1} \oplus t_{i_2} \oplus \dots t_{i_m}$ , there must exist some other summand  $b' \times t'$  of  $t_{i_1} \oplus t_{i_2} \oplus \dots t_{i_m}$  s.t.  $(b \times t)\tau' =_{\oplus} (b' \times t')\tau'$ . We consider two cases:

- (1) Suppose that both  $b \times t$  and  $b' \times t'$  occur in some  $t_{i_j}$   $(1 \leq j \leq m)$ , so  $t_{i_j} = (b \times t) \oplus (b' \times t' \oplus t'')$  We apply the *Cancel* rule, and get  $t''[I_{i_j}; \tau_{i_1} \cup \tau'_1]$ , where  $\tau'_1$  is a Boolean unifier of  $b \times t$  and  $b' \times t'$ . Then  $\tau' = \tau'_1 \cup \tau'_2$ , for some  $\tau'_2$ . Now  $\mathscr{C}^{i+1}_{mix}$  contains  $t_{i_1}[I_{i_1}; \tau_{i_1}], \ldots, t''[I_{i_j}; \tau_{i_j} \cup \tau'_1], \ldots t_{i_m}[I_{i_m}; \tau_{i_m}]$  s.t.
  - (i)  $I_{i_1} \cup I_{i_2} \cup \ldots \cup I_{i_m} = I$ , and  $\forall p, q, p \neq q \rightarrow I_{i_p} \cap I_{i_q} = \emptyset$ .
  - (ii)  $(t_{i_1} \oplus \ldots \oplus t'' \oplus \ldots t_{i_m})\tau_2' = 0$  and  $\tau_2' \cup \tau_{i_1} \cup \ldots \cup \tau_1' \cup \ldots \cup \tau_{i_m} = \tau$ .

Therefore,  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^{i+1}$  is also solvable under  $(I,\tau)$ .  $b \times t$  and  $b' \times t'$ .

- (2) Otherwise, suppose that  $b \times t$  is a summand of  $t_{i_x}$ , and  $b' \times t'$  is a summand of  $t_{i_y}$  ( $x \neq y$ ). Suppose that  $t_{i_x} = b \times t \oplus t''$  and  $t_{i_y} = b' \times t' \oplus t'''$ . By applying the *Combine* rule, we get  $t'' \oplus t'''[I_{i_x} \cup I_{i_y}; \tau_{i_x} \cup \tau_{i_x} \cup \tau_{i_1}']$ , where  $\tau_1'$  is a Boolean unifier of  $b \times t$  and  $b' \times t'$ . Then  $\tau' = \tau_1' \cup \tau_2'$ , for some  $\tau_2'$ . Now  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^{i+1}$  contains  $t_{i_1}[I_{i_1}; \tau_{i_1}], \ldots, t'' \oplus t'''[I_{i_x} \cup I_{i_y}; \tau_{i_x} \cup \tau_{i_y} \cup \tau_1'], \ldots t_{i_m}[I_{i_m}; \tau_{i_m}]$  s.t.
  - (i)  $I_{i_1} \cup I_{i_2} \cup \ldots \cup I_{i_m} = I$ , and  $\forall p, q, p \neq q \rightarrow I_{i_p} \cap I_{i_q} = \emptyset$ .
  - (ii)  $(t_{i_1} \oplus \ldots \oplus t'' \oplus t''' \oplus \ldots t_{i_m})\tau_2' = 0$  and  $\tau_2' \cup \tau_{i_1} \cup \ldots \cup \tau_1' \cup \ldots \cup \tau_{i_m} = \tau$ .

Therefore,  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}^{i+1}$  is also solvable under  $(I,\tau)$ .  $b \times t$  and  $b' \times t'$ .

<span id="page-27-0"></span>**Lemma E.5** (Completeness). Let  $\mathscr{C}_{mix} = \{mt_1, mt_2, \dots, mt_n\}$ , and  $\mathscr{C}^n_{mix} = \text{ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE}(\mathscr{C}_{mix})$ . If  $\oplus \{mt_i \mid i \in I\}\tau = 0$ , then  $0[I;\tau] \in \mathscr{C}^n_{mix}$ .

Proof. If  $\bigoplus\{mt_i \mid i \in I\}\tau = 0$ , then  $\mathscr{C}^1_{mix}$  is solvable under  $(I,\tau)$ . According to Lemma E.4, for all i, either  $0[I;\tau] \in \mathscr{C}^i_{mix}$  or we can make an inference s.t.  $\mathscr{C}^{i+1}_{mix}$  is still solvable under  $(I,\tau)$ . According to Lemma E.3, eventually no inference is possible, therefore  $0[I;\tau] \in \mathscr{C}^n_{mix}$ .

{28}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-28-0"></span>F Properties of xor-rooted-unify

We prove the following properties about XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY.

**Theorem F.1** (Soundness of XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY). Given any  $\oplus$ -mapping  $\mathcal{M}$ , and any set of pure terms  $\mathscr{C} = \{t_1, t_2, \dots, t_n\}$ . If XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY( $\mathcal{M}, \mathscr{C}$ ) returns ( $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -unifiable, result), then for any  $(I, \sigma)$  in result,  $\{t_i | i \in I\}$  is  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -unifiable with 0 under  $\sigma$ .

Proof. Let  $\mathscr{C}_{mix} = \{mt_1, mt_2, \dots, mt_n\}$ . Since  $\mathscr{C}_{mix} = \mathscr{C}\gamma^{\mathscr{M}}$ ,  $mt_i = t_i\gamma^{\mathscr{M}}$   $(1 \leq i \leq n)$ . By Lemma E.2, if  $0[I;\tau] \in \text{ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE}(\mathscr{C}_{mix})$ , then  $(\oplus \{mt_i|i \in I\})\tau = 0$ . Therefore  $(\oplus \{t_i|i \in I\})\gamma_{\mathscr{M}}\tau = 0$ , which means that  $(\oplus \{t_i|i \in I\})(\gamma_{\mathscr{M}}\circ\tau) = 0$ .  $\gamma_{\mathscr{M}}\circ\tau\in\hat{\sigma}$ . By Lemma C.7,  $\gamma_{\mathscr{M}}\circ\tau$  is an admissible  $\mathscr{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitution.

**Theorem F.2** (Termination of XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY). For any  $\oplus$ -mapping and any set of pure terms  $\mathscr{C}$ , XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY( $\mathscr{M}$ ,  $\mathscr{C}$ ) always terminates.

*Proof.* Obviously, REMOVE-TERM-VARIABLES( $\mathcal{M}, \mathcal{C}$ ) terminates. By Lemma E.3, ANNOTATE-AND-SATURATE( $\mathcal{C}_{mix}$ ) terminates. Therefore XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY( $\mathcal{M}, \mathcal{C}$ ) terminates.

**Theorem F.3** (Completeness of XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY). Given any  $\oplus$ -mapping  $\mathcal{M}$ , and any set of pure terms  $\mathscr{C} = \{t_1, t_2, \ldots, t_n\}$ . If  $\{t_i | i \in I\}$  is  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -unifiable with 0 under  $\sigma$ , then XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY( $\mathcal{M}, \mathscr{C}$ ) returns ( $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -unifiable, result), where  $(I, \sigma) \in result$ .

Proof.  $\{t_i|i\in I\}$  is  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -unifiable with 0 under  $\sigma$ . By Definition 3.6,  $\oplus\{t_i|i\in I\}\sigma=0$ , and  $\sigma$  is an admissible  $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -substitution. By Lemma C.7.  $\sigma\in\hat{\sigma}$ , which means that there exits some Boolean substitution  $\tau$  s.t.  $\gamma^{\mathcal{M}}\circ\tau=\sigma$ . Since  $\mathscr{C}_{mix}=\mathscr{C}\gamma^{\mathcal{M}}$ ,  $mt_i=t_i\gamma^{\mathcal{M}}$   $(1\leq i\leq n)$ . Then  $\oplus\{t_i|i\in I\}(\gamma^{\mathcal{M}}\circ\tau)=0$ , which means that  $\oplus\{mt_i|i\in I\}\tau=0$ . By Lemma E.5,  $0[I;\tau]\in\mathscr{C}^n_{mix}$ . Therefore, XOR-ROOTED-UNIFY( $\mathcal{M},\mathscr{C}$ ) returns ( $\mathcal{M}_{\oplus}$ -unifiable, result), where  $(I,\sigma)\in result$ .