# Mac'n'Cheese: Zero-Knowledge Proofs for Boolean and Arithmetic Circuits with Nested Disjunctions

Carsten Baum Aarhus University Alex J. Malozemoff Galois, Inc.

Marc B. Rosen Galois, Inc. Peter Scholl Aarhus University

#### Abstract

Zero knowledge proofs are an important building block in many cryptographic applications. Unfortunately, when the proof statements become very large, existing zero-knowledge proof systems easily reach their limits: either the computational overhead, the memory footprint, or the required bandwidth exceed levels that would be tolerable in practice.

We present an interactive zero-knowledge proof system for boolean and arithmetic circuits, called Mac<sup>0</sup>n <sup>0</sup>Cheese, with a focus on supporting large circuits. Our work follows the commit-andprove paradigm instantiated using information-theoretic MACs based on vector oblivious linear evaluation to achieve high efficiency. We additionally show how to optimize disjunctions, with a general OR transformation for proving the disjunction of m statements that has communication complexity proportional to the longest statement (plus an additive term logarithmic in m). These disjunctions can further be nested, allowing efficient proofs about complex statements with many levels of disjunctions. We also show how to make Mac<sup>0</sup>n <sup>0</sup>Cheese non-interactive (after a preprocessing phase) using the Fiat-Shamir transform, and with only a small degradation in soundness.

We have implemented the online phase of Mac<sup>0</sup>n <sup>0</sup>Cheese and achieve a runtime of 144 ns per AND gate and 1.5 µs per multiplication gate in F<sup>2</sup> <sup>61</sup>−<sup>1</sup> when run over a network with a 95 ms latency and a bandwidth of 31.5 Mbps. In addition, we show that the disjunction optimization improves communication as expected: when proving a boolean circuit with eight branches and each branch containing roughly 1 billion multiplications, Mac<sup>0</sup>n <sup>0</sup>Cheese requires only 75 more bytes to communicate than in the single branch case.

# 1 Introduction

Zero knowledge (ZK) proofs are interactive protocols which allow a prover P to convince a verifier V that a certain statement x is true in such a way that V learns nothing beyond the validity of the statement. ZK proofs have a wide range of applications in cryptography, from signatures [\[BG90\]](#page-26-0) to compiling other protocols from passive to active security [\[GMW87\]](#page-27-0). More recently, ZK proofs have seen widespread applications outside of classical cryptography, for example in the cryptocurrency space [\[BCG](#page-25-0)+14]. These constructions mostly focus on succinctness and non-interactivity; namely, the construction of "succinct" proofs that have a small verification runtime and that do not require interaction between P and V for validation.

However, for sufficiently large statements—on the order of billions of instructions—most existing proof systems fail due to either memory constraints or high prover running times. Systems such as SNARKs [\[BCG](#page-25-1)+13] or recent IOP-based constructions such as Ligero [\[AHIV17\]](#page-25-2) or STARKs [\[BBHR19\]](#page-25-3) suffer from exactly this drawback: they have an inherent asymptotic prover overhead, paying at least a multiplicative factor log(|x|) in computation when the statement has length |x|, and they need to keep the entire statement x in memory.

#### 1.1 Our Approach: Mac<sup>0</sup>n <sup>0</sup>Cheese

In this work we introduce a family of novel ZK proof protocols called Mac0n <sup>0</sup>Cheese, which are optimized for statements at scale. We use the commit-and-prove paradigm [\[CD97\]](#page-26-1), where we "commit to" values using an information-theoretic message authentication code (MAC). For each committed value, P holds the MAC'ed value and the tag, and V holds the MAC key. Such commitments can be generated very efficiently using vector oblivious linear evaluation (VOLE) [\[BCGI18\]](#page-26-2) in a preprocessing phase, which can generate many such random commitments with only a small amount of interaction and computation [\[WYKW20\]](#page-27-1).

Naively, this commit-and-prove approach leads to a proof with bandwidth costs that scale linearly with the circuit size. To decrease this, in Mac0n <sup>0</sup>Cheese we support efficiently evaluating disjunctive statements, namely, to prove that one out of m statements is true, the prover only needs to communicate the information needed to evaluate the true branch among all m disjunctions. Both parties still perform the computations necessary to evaluate each branch, but the verifier uses the messages for the correct branch for all m instances simultaneously. The idea of optimizing disjunctive statements in this way was first considered in recent work on stacked garbling [\[HK20b\]](#page-27-2), with proofs of disjunctions based on garbled circuits. They observed that disjunctive statements can arise in many natural applications, such as when proving in zero-knowledge the existence of a bug in a program, so optimizing these is well-motivated.

At a high level, our technique can be seen as a generalized OR composition for m protocols, where the resulting OR proof has communication complexity proportional to max{Ci}, where C<sup>i</sup> is the complexity of the i-th protocol. Contrasted with the classic OR proof approach [\[CDS94\]](#page-26-3), which requires PC<sup>i</sup> communication, our techniques for stacking save a multiplicative factor of m. On the other hand, compared with stacked garbling [\[HK20b\]](#page-27-2), our underlying protocols have around 20× less communication, and are also more flexible, since we can support both boolean and arithmetic circuits.

Efficiency comparison and related work. [Table 1](#page-2-0) shows the efficiency of our protocols alongside other VOLE- or garbled-circuit-based protocols, where we focus on communication cost per multiplication gate measured in field elements. As far as we are aware, there are only two ZK approaches that can successfully scale to large statements: the garbled circuit ZK approach [\[JKO13,](#page-27-3) [FNO15,](#page-27-4) [ZRE15,](#page-27-5) [HK20b\]](#page-27-2), and the more recent approach based on VOLE, namely the concurrent works Wolverine [\[WYKW20\]](#page-27-1) and Line-Point ZK [\[DIO21\]](#page-27-6), plus QuickSilver [\[YSWW21\]](#page-27-7) (which builds on Line-Point ZK). All of these VOLE-based approaches have provers that run linear in the proof statement alongside the ability to "stream"—namely, the prover and verifier are not required to store the entire proof statement in memory.

For Mac0n <sup>0</sup>Cheese, our first class of "simple" protocols reduces the communication complexity of Wolverine from 4 to 3 field elements for arithmetic circuits, and achieves a slightly higher cost (9 bits) for boolean circuits, while avoiding the need to amortize over many gates. Our second set of protocols has essentially the same practical cost as Line-Point ZK and QuickSilver, but is best run in large batches, so suited for bigger circuits. Importantly, all of our protocols are compatible with our technique for efficient disjunctions—we currently do not know how to efficiently adapt

<span id="page-2-0"></span>

| Protocol                             | Boolean        |             | Arithmetic |                  |             | Disjunctions |                                    |
|--------------------------------------|----------------|-------------|------------|------------------|-------------|--------------|------------------------------------|
|                                      | Comm.          | Rounds      | Mmps       | Comm.            | Rounds      | Mmps         |                                    |
| Stacked garbling [HK20b]             | 128            | 3           | $0.3^{1}$  | _                | _           | _            | <b>√</b>                           |
| Wolverine [WYKW20]                   | $7^*$          | 3           | $2.0^{2}$  | 4                | 3           | $0.2^{2}$    | $\boldsymbol{\varkappa}^{\dagger}$ |
| Line-Point ZK [DIO21]                |                |             |            | 1                | 3           |              | X                                  |
| ${\sf QuickSilver} \ [{\rm YSWW21}]$ | 1              | 3           | $12.2^{3}$ | 1                | 3           | $1.4^{3}$    | X                                  |
| Mac'n'Cheese (simple)                | 9              | 3           |            | 3                | 3           | _            | <b>√</b>                           |
| Mac'n'Cheese (batched)               | $1+\epsilon^*$ | $O(\log b)$ | $6.9^{4}$  | $1 + \epsilon^*$ | $O(\log b)$ | $0.6^{4}$    | $\checkmark$                       |

<sup>\*</sup> For large batches (e.g.,  $b \ge 1$  million).

Table 1: Comparison of different GC and VOLE-based ZK protocols (costs exclude OT/VOLE setup). "Comm." denotes the number of field elements communicated per multiplication. "Rounds" denotes the total number of rounds required, where we count rounds as the number of message flows, so one round is a single message from the prover to the verifier. "Mmps" denotes the number of multiplication gates per second in millions. We caution against reading too much into these numbers due to differing experimental environments, and provide them mostly as a rough comparison guide. "Disjunctions" denotes those protocols that support communication-optimized disjunctions. The variable b denotes the batch-size of multiplications, and  $\epsilon$  denotes a value close to zero that depends on b. Concretely, for a batch size of  $b = 1\,000\,000$  we require 17 rounds with  $\epsilon = .008$  for the boolean case (using  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{40}}$ ) and  $\epsilon = .257$  for the arithmetic case (using  $\mathbb{F}_{p}$  for  $p = 2^{61} - 1$ ).

this technique for QuickSilver or Line-Point ZK<sup>1</sup>.

Finally, note that for zero knowledge from garbled circuits, the best approach currently has a communication cost of 128 bits per AND gate, which is around 18× higher than our approach that also supports disjunctive statements. We note that Heath and Kolesnikov [HK20b] were the first to consider "stacked" disjunctive proofs. Our approach was inspired by stacked garbling, but the technique is very different, and closer in spirit to the earlier 'free if' for private function evaluation [Kol18] (although neither technique follows from the other).

**Implementation.** We implemented the online phase of Mac'n'Cheese in the Rust programming language. Currently, we do not have an implementation of VOLE, which should add a small amount of communication—0.42 bits per VOLE—and slight increase in runtime—at most 85 ns per VOLE [WYKW20, Table 4].

When run on a real-world network (95 ms latency and a bandwidth of 31.5 Mbps), Mac'n'Cheese requires approximately 1.5  $\mu$ s per multiplication gate (for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{61}-1}$ ), and 144 ns per AND gate (using  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{40}}$ ). Run locally, Mac'n'Cheese requires approximately 276 ns per multiplication gate and 141 ns per AND gate. We also show that disjunctions have large communication savings: when run on a circuit containing eight branches each of which contains 1 billion multiplication gates, we see a

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>†</sup> While we believe Wolverine can be combined with our approach described in §3.1, the performance implications of this combination are unclear.

 $<sup>^{\</sup>rm 1}$  With a 100 ms latency and a 100 Mbps bandwidth.

 $<sup>^2</sup>$  With a 0.1 ms latency and a 50 Mbps bandwidth.

 $<sup>^3</sup>$  With a 0.1 ms latency and a 30 Mbps bandwidth for boolean and a 100 Mbps bandwidth for arithmetic.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> With a 93 ms latency and a 31.5 Mbps bandwidth.

<span id="page-2-1"></span> $<sup>^{1}</sup>$ The challenge in applying our disjunction optimization to these protocols is that the verification check requires input from V, which allows a malicious V to try to guess the evaluated branch by supplying an invalid value for all other branches.

communication increase of only 75 bytes versus running a single 1-billion-gate branch.

## 1.2 Our Techniques

We present the Mac0n <sup>0</sup>Cheese approach in four steps: first, we describe the zero-knowledge protocol in a setting with idealized homomorphic commitments to single field elements. Next, we present an abstraction for such protocols which we call Interactive Protocols with Linear Oracle Verification— IPs with LOVe for short—and explain how IPs with LOVe naturally support nested disjunctions and can be compiled to ZK protocols using VOLE. We then provide efficient IPs with LOVe for general circuit satisfiability, which intuitively follow from such protocols for homomorphic commitments. Finally, we show that our protocols are compatible with streaming and that we can apply the Fiat-Shamir transform to reduce the round complexity with only a small loss in soundness.

Circuit satisfiability via idealized homomorphic commitments. Assume that the statement x, together with a witness w, is provided to P while V only obtains x. We consider x as a circuit C over a finite field F, such that C(w) = 0 iff (x, w) ∈ R and assume that w is a vector over F.

Implementing the test that C(w) = 0 can be done using standard techniques with idealized homomorphic commitments [\[CD98\]](#page-26-4), but we nevertheless sketch these now. First, P commits to (1) w, (2) triples of the form a, b, c such that c = a · b, and (3) the outputs of all the gates of C(w). P and V then engage in an interactive protocol to test that:

- 1. The commitments to gate outputs are consistent with C and w; and
- 2. The output of the output gate of C is zero.

Note that these checks reduce to testing that certain committed values are zero:

- This is clear for testing the output of the output gate.
- For each addition gate (or multiplications with public constants from F) one can simply apply the respective linear operation to the commitments to the inputs of the gate, subtract the commitment of the output and test if the result is a commitment to zero.
- For each multiplication gate, we use Beaver's circuit randomization approach [\[Bea92,](#page-26-5) [CD98,](#page-26-4) [KOS16\]](#page-27-9) to reduce multiplication to zero-testing a commitment to a linear combination of commitments to the gate inputs, outputs, and the random triples (a, b, c), alongside an additional random element sent by V. (In fact, this random element can be generated by the output of a random oracle on the protocol transcript using the Fiat-Shamir transform. We provide more details on this in § [4.1.](#page-15-0))

When instantiating homomorphic commitments with VOLE (as we describe later), this basic protocol has an amortized communication complexity of 3 field elements per multiplication gate. This improves upon the arithmetic protocol of Weng et al. [\[WYKW20\]](#page-27-1), which uses 4 field elements, although they also present a variant with 2 field elements per multiplication which has a higher computational cost due to polynomial operations.

Formalizing security using IPs with LOVe (§ [2\)](#page-6-0). Proofs based on ideal homomorphic commitments can be modeled as a functionality where the prover initially commits to some secret values, and the verifier is then allowed to perform linear queries to the commitments, to check that certain relations hold. For instance, linear interactive oracle proofs (IOPs) [\[BBC](#page-25-4)+19] model exactly this. In § [2,](#page-6-0) we extend this paradigm with a new abstraction called interactive proofs with linear oracle verification (IPs with LOVe). In this abstraction, P begins by committing some proof string π to an oracle O. The parties then exchange messages for a fixed number of rounds, after which V sends multiple queries of the form (z<sup>i</sup> , yi) to O. These queries are determined by V based on the messages that it received in the previous rounds. O truthfully tells V if hπ, zii = y<sup>i</sup> or not for each of these queries. Eventually, V outputs a bit to represent whether it accepts or not.

The key difference between IPs with LOVe and linear IOPs [\[BBC](#page-25-4)+19], is that on top of oracle queries, we allow the prover and verifier to exchange a number of messages. Therefore, IPs with LOVe naturally model homomorphic commitments in the same way as linear IOPs, while also giving extra power from the exchange of messages, which is what we exploit in our protocols for efficient disjunctions.

From IPs with LOVe to IPs with VOLE. We show that any Public Coin IP with LOVe can be combined with a VOLE protocol to obtain a ZK proof. This is described in §[2.2.](#page-8-0) We instantiate the oracle O that contains the string π using information-theoretic commitments (or MACs) of the form

$$MAC_{(\alpha,\beta)}(x) := x\alpha + \beta,$$

where x comes from a field F<sup>p</sup> and all remaining value from an extension field F<sup>p</sup> <sup>k</sup> for k ≥ 1. We call α the "MAC key" and β the "MAC offset", and sometimes use the notation K to denote the tuple (α, β), held by the verifier, and τ to denote the MAC tag, held by the prover. These commitments are linearly homomorphic for keys that share the α component, so we can realize each oracle query as a zero-test on such commitments. Their binding guarantee follows from the size of F<sup>p</sup> k .

A batch of n MACs on random values is exactly equivalent to a VOLE of length n, since the MAC relation can be viewed as evaluating a linear function on the input x. This can be generated with high efficiency using recent (random) VOLE protocols based on arithmetic variants of the LPN assumption [\[BCGI18,](#page-26-2) [BCG](#page-26-6)+19a, [WYKW20\]](#page-27-1), with communication almost independent of n. VOLE on random inputs gives us a committed proof string of random elements; the prover can then take any of these random values and adjust them with a masked value to commit to an input of his choice.

Disjunctive proofs for IPs with LOVe (§ [3\)](#page-10-0). Our main technical contribution, described in § [3.1,](#page-12-0) can be seen as a general form of OR composition for IPs with LOVe. The communication complexity in the resulting OR proof is proportional to the maximum of that in the original proofs. Note that our transformation is different to the stacked garbling approach [\[HK20b\]](#page-27-2) (which does not fit the IP with LOVe paradigm), and we obtain much greater efficiency when using our IPs with LOVe instead.

We limit ourselves to IPs with LOVe that are public coin, i.e., where V only sends messages that are random bits and where the queries to O can be derived deterministically from the protocol transcript. This is indeed the case for our general IP with LOVe protocols that we describe later. We then go on to show that if one has m such public coin IPs with LOVe Π1, · · · , Π<sup>m</sup> whose messages from P to V can be made "compatible", then one can construct a (public coin) IP with LOVe Π whose message complexity essentially only depends on the protocol Π<sup>i</sup> which sends the most messages, plus an additional check that requires O(m) communication but is independent of all m IPs of LOVe themselves. V accepts in Π if and only if at least one of the instances Π<sup>i</sup> was accepting.

In order to run Π, P and V initially execute Π1, . . . , Π<sup>m</sup> in parallel. The key insight is that we only send those messages from P to V that belong to the one protocol Π<sup>i</sup> <sup>∗</sup> where P has a witness w<sup>i</sup> <sup>∗</sup> for x<sup>i</sup> <sup>∗</sup> , padding with dummy messages such that the communication looks as if it could belong to any of the m branches. V uses the one message that it obtains per round for all Π1, . . . , Π<sup>m</sup> in parallel, not knowing to which of the m protocols it belongs. Finally, instead of performing the queries to O at the end of each Π<sup>i</sup> , Π runs a standard (small) OR-proof `a la Cramer et al. [\[CDS94\]](#page-26-3) to show that the queries in at least one of the m branches are all valid. The trick here is that we can show that this OR-proof can itself be expressed as sending certain messages between P and V followed by queries to O from V, making Π a public coin IP with LOVe as desired.

Thresholds, logarithmic overhead, and recursive nesting. The OR-proof of Cramer et al. [\[CDS94\]](#page-26-3) can be generalized for any threshold r out of m, showing that at least r instances of Π1, . . . , Π<sup>m</sup> were correct. We generalize our protocol to this setting, with communication r times that of Π<sup>i</sup> , instead of m.

While the above techniques avoid the factor m blowup from [\[CDS94\]](#page-26-3), they do still incur an additive O(m) overhead in the number of statements. We present a different approach, which reduces this to logarithmic using recursion. The key idea is that we can build a 1-out-of-2 disjunctive proof, which itself satisfies the conditions required to be stacked. Applying recursion in a binary tree-like manner, we obtain a 1-out-of-m proof with O(log m) overhead. Note that the ability to recurse is also useful when capturing proofs about complex programs, which may contain arbitrary nested levels of disjunctions, with communication proportional to the longest path through the entire program. The original stacked garbling approach [\[HK20b\]](#page-27-2) did not support nested disjunctions, however, a later update shows how to handle them [\[HK20a\]](#page-27-10).

Efficient IPs with LOVe for circuit satisfiability (§ [4\)](#page-14-0). Towards efficiently instantiating IPs with LOVe, in § [4.1](#page-15-0) we describe a simple high-level syntax for expressing a large class of IPs with LOVe using an abstract homomorphic commitment notation. We refer to these as commitand-prove (C&P) IPs with LOVe. This avoids the low-level details in the definition, simplifying the process of specifying and analyzing protocols. To illustrate this, we describe in § [4.2](#page-16-0) a simple protocol for circuit satisfiability.

Next, in § [4.3](#page-17-0) we present an optimized circuit satisfiability protocol that batch-checks n multiplication gates simultaneously. To achieve this, we adapt the log(n)-round inner product check of Boneh et al. [\[BBC](#page-25-4)+19] to C&P IPs with LOVe, which we then use for the batch check.

Due to the additive overhead generated from the batch check, it might not be the most communication-efficient approach for binary circuits when n is small. In § [4.4](#page-19-0) we therefore present a batch check of multiplications for binary circuits that has an overhead of 9 bits, essentially independent of n. This check uses reverse multiplication-friendly embeddings [\[BMN18,](#page-26-7) [CCXY18\]](#page-26-8) which were previously mainly used for efficient multiplications in MPC protocols.

Streaming and removing interaction (§ [5\)](#page-19-1). We wish to obtain a zero-knowledge proof that both has a small memory footprint, allowing streaming, and also minimizes interaction, so that ideally the proof is completely non-interactive after a one-time preprocessing phase (for generating the random VOLEs[2](#page-6-1) . We show how to achieve a small memory footprint in our protocols by verifying each linear oracle query as it arises during the computation, rather than batching them together at the end. However, this introduces a high degree of interaction, since now the parties have to interact for every multiplication gate in the circuit.

The natural approach to avoiding interaction is to apply the Fiat-Shamir transform by obtaining the verifier's random challenges from a random oracle. However, the low-memory protocol to which we want to apply this has a very large round complexity, possibly even linear in the circuit size. The Fiat-Shamir transform is typically only applied to constant-round protocols, since in the worst-case, the soundness can degrade exponentially with the number of rounds [\[BCS16\]](#page-26-9). Several works, however, have defined extra conditions on the underlying protocol which suffice to avoid this degradation, for the cases of interactive oracle proofs [\[BCS16\]](#page-26-9) and general interactive proofs [\[CCH](#page-26-10)+19].

Following in this direction, we adapt the concept of round-by-round soundness [\[CCH](#page-26-10)+19] of interactive proofs to IPs with LOVe. We then show that by applying a Fiat-Shamir transform, any IP with LOVe satisfying this modified notion can be transformed into a NIZK (with VOLE preprocessing) in the random oracle model, with negligible soundness degradation. Finally, we also show that our streamable protocols for circuit satisfiability do indeed have round-by-round soundness, so can safely be made non-interactive.

# <span id="page-6-0"></span>2 Interactive Proofs with Linear Oracle Verification

In this section we introduce our proof methodology, called interactive proofs with linear oracle verification (IPs with LOVe). In addition, we show how, using vector oblivious linear evaluation (VOLE), any public coin IP with LOVe can be turned into a zero-knowledge proof.

Notation. For any vector r we denote by r|<sup>t</sup> the restriction to the first t elements and by r[i] the ith element of r. Let [P ↔ V] denote the distribution of exchanged messages between two parties P and V and let [P ↔ V]<sup>t</sup> denote the distribution of the transcript of the messages exchanged in the first t rounds. Denote by ViewV[P ↔ V] the view of V when interacting with P. We defer the (standard) definition of zero-knowledge proofs to § [A.](#page-28-0)

## <span id="page-6-2"></span>2.1 Definitions

We now formalize IPs with LOVe over a finite field F<sup>p</sup> <sup>k</sup> . This formalization is a generalization of linear interactive oracle proofs [\[BBC](#page-25-4)+19], where in each round, the verifier chooses some linear function, and learns the evaluation of this on a proof string chosen by the prover. In comparison, we let the prover P first fix the proof string π, which is a vector of field elements. Then, both P and the verifier V exchange messages for a certain number of rounds. Finally, V issues a number of affine queries to π, upon which it makes a decision on whether to accept or not. These queries can depend on the messages that were exchanged between both P and V throughout the protocol.

We let P fix π ∈ F ` p <sup>k</sup> at the beginning of the protocol and allow V to access it via oracle queries only at the end of the protocol. In the oracle query stage, we let V choose q queries (z1, y1), . . . ,(zq, yq) ∈ F ` p <sup>k</sup> × F<sup>p</sup> <sup>k</sup> which it sends to an oracle that stores π. This oracle checks that

<span id="page-6-1"></span><sup>2</sup>Note that precomputing VOLEs may require large memory and/or storage. If storage is expensive, one could compute them on-the-fly using a pseudorandom correlation function [\[BCG](#page-26-11)<sup>+</sup>20].

for each of the q queries the relation  $\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_i \rangle = y_i$  holds. The query results are then (truthfully) reported to V by the oracle.

Note that by default, both  $\pi$  and the queries lie over the extension field  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ . In some cases, such as when we are proving statements over  $\mathbb{F}_p$ , some elements of  $\pi$  may only be in  $\mathbb{F}_p$ , which allows for improved efficiency when instantiating IPs with LOVe, as we will see later. In this case, during the query phase we view any  $\mathbb{F}_p$  value as an element of  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  via some fixed embedding.

**Definition 1** (Interactive Protocol with Linear Oracle Verification). Let  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  be a field and  $\ell, t, q \in \mathbb{N}$ . Then a t-round q-query interactive protocol with linear oracle verification  $\Pi = (\mathsf{P}, \mathsf{V})$  with oracle length  $\ell$ , message lengths  $r_1^\mathsf{P}, r_1^\mathsf{V}, \dots, r_t^\mathsf{P}, r_t^\mathsf{V} \in \mathbb{N}$  and message complexity  $\sum_{h=1}^t (r_h^\mathsf{P} + r_h^\mathsf{V})$  over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  consists of the algorithm  $\mathsf{P}$  and  $\mathsf{PPT}$  algorithm  $\mathsf{V}$  that interact as follows:

- 1. Initially, P obtains its respective input while V obtains the statement x. P then submits a string  $\pi \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^{\ell}$  to the oracle. P then outputs a state  $s_0^{\mathsf{P}}$  while V outputs a state  $s_0^{\mathsf{V}}$ . We set an auxiliary variable  $a_0 = \bot$ .
- 2. For round  $h \in [t]$ , P and V do the following:
  - (a) First, V on input  $s_{h-1}^{V}$  and  $a_{h-1}$  outputs message  $e_h \in \mathbb{F}_p^{r_h^{V}}$  and state  $s_h^{V}$ .
  - (b) Then, P on input  $s_{h-1}^{\mathsf{P}}$  and  $e_h$  outputs message  $a_h \in \mathbb{F}_p^{r_h^{\mathsf{P}}}$  and state  $s_h^{\mathsf{P}}$ .
- 3. Finally, V on input  $a_t$  and state  $s_t^V$  makes q linear oracle queries to  $\pi$  over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  and outputs a bit

We say that the protocol accepts if V outputs 1 at the end of the protocol.

**Remark 1.** Note that the prover and verifier's messages  $(a_h, e_h)$  are specified as elements of the base field  $\mathbb{F}_p$ , and this is how we count message complexity. This is an arbitrary restriction, since these messages can easily be used to encode extension field elements or general bit strings.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Definition 2** (Honest-Verifier Zero-Knowledge Interactive Proof with Linear Oracle Verification). A t-round q-query interactive protocol with linear oracle verification  $\Pi = (P, V)$  over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  is an honest-verifier zero-knowledge interactive proof with linear oracle verification (HVZK IP with LOVe) for a relation  $\mathcal{R}$  with soundness error  $\epsilon$  if it satisfies the following three properties:

**Completeness:** For all  $(x, \mathbf{w}) \in \mathcal{R}$  the interaction between  $P(x, \mathbf{w})$  and V(x) is accepting.

**Soundness:** For all  $x \notin L(\mathcal{R})$  and for all (unbounded) algorithms  $P^*$ , any interaction of  $P^*$  with V(x) is accepting with probability at most  $\epsilon$ .

**Honest-Verifier Zero-Knowledge:** There exists a PPT algorithm S such that for any  $(x, \boldsymbol{w}) \in R$  the output of S(x) is perfectly indistinguishable from  $View_V[P(x, \boldsymbol{w}) \leftrightarrow V(x)]$  for any honest V.

We use the notation IP-LOVe to denote a t-round, q-query HVZK IP with LOVe for relation  $\mathcal{R}$  over field  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  with oracle length  $\ell$ , message complexity  $\alpha$  elements of  $\mathbb{F}_p$ , and soundness error  $\epsilon$ .

In this work, all the protocols we construct will additionally be proofs of knowledge and public coin, as in the following definitions.

<span id="page-8-3"></span>**Definition 3** (ZK Interactive Proof of Knowledge with LOVe). Let  $\Pi$  be an IP-LOVe protocol for a statement x using a proof string  $\pi$  such that V accepts with probability  $> \epsilon$ . Then  $\Pi$  is a proof of knowledge if there exists a PPT extractor E that, on input  $x, \pi$ , outputs a witness w such that  $(x, w) \in \mathcal{R}$ .

<span id="page-8-4"></span>**Definition 4** (Public Coin IP with LOVe). An IP-LOVe protocol  $\Pi$  is public coin if

- 1. V chooses each  $e_h \in \mathbb{F}_p^{r_h^{\vee}}$  for  $x \in L(\mathcal{R})$  uniformly at random (and in particular, independent of  $s_{h-1}^{\vee}$  and  $a_{h-1}$ ).
- 2. There exists a deterministic polytime algorithm Q, which, on input x and  $\{e_h, a_h\}_{h \in [t]}$ , computes the q oracle queries  $(z_1, y_1), \ldots, (z_q, y_q)$  of V.
- 3. V accepts iff all queries generated by Q are accepting.

**From** *q*-query to 1-query. Given a *q*-query IP with LOVe, we can always convert it to one with a single oracle query, with a small loss in soundness, by taking random linear combinations of all queries over a large enough extension field. This transformation, given below, is public-coin and adds just one extra round of communication, so when using IPs with LOVe, we will often assume they have only one query, to simplify our protocols.

Let  $\Pi$  be an IP-LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  (p need not be prime), and let k be such that  $p^k$  is superpolynomial in a statistical security parameter. We construct an IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , by viewing the proof  $\pi \in \mathbb{F}_p^\ell$  from  $\Pi$  as a vector in  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}^\ell$ , running the same protocol and then modifying the query phase as follows. Recall that the q queries  $(z_1, y_1), \ldots, (z_q, y_q)$  in  $\Pi$  accept if and only if  $\langle \pi, z_i \rangle = y_i$  i.e.  $\mu_i := \langle \pi, z_i \rangle - y_i = 0$  in  $\mathbb{F}_p$ . Now, we modify the protocol by having V send q random elements  $\rho_1, \ldots, \rho_q \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  to P. Notice that if  $\mu := \sum_{i \in [q]} \rho_i \mu_i = 0$ , all queries are satisfied except with probability  $p^{-k}$ . We equivalently have  $\mu = \langle \pi, z \rangle - y$  for  $z = \sum_{i \in [q]} \rho_i z_i$  and  $y = \sum_{i \in [q]} \rho_i y_i$ . This shows we can reduce the q oracle queries down to just one query (z, y) over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , at the cost of an extra q elements of  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  sent from V to P, and the soundness error increasing by  $p^{-k}$ .

#### <span id="page-8-0"></span>2.2 Instantiating IPs with LOVe Using VOLE

We now show that any IP-LOVe can be transformed into a zero-knowledge proof, by using vector oblivious linear evaluation (VOLE) to instantiate the linear oracle queries. The functionality for random VOLE is given in Figure 1: it picks a vector of random samples  $(r, \tau)$ ,  $(\alpha, \beta)$  such that  $\tau = r\alpha + \beta$ , and outputs them to the respective parties. This can be seen as a secret-sharing of the products  $r[i]\alpha$ , for  $i = 1, ..., \ell$ . Note that we relax security slightly by allowing corrupt parties to choose their own randomness. This models existing random VOLE protocols based on the LPN assumption [BCGI18, BCG<sup>+</sup>19b, WYKW20], which can generate a large, length  $\ell$  VOLE with communication that is almost independent of  $\ell$ .

<span id="page-8-2"></span><span id="page-8-1"></span> $<sup>^3</sup>$ If we did not want a public-coin protocol, we could skip this message from V to P.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup>Alternatively, V could send a single random  $\rho \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , and define  $\rho_i = \rho^i$ . This reduces communication while increasing the error probability to  $q \cdot p^{-k}$ , by applying the Schwartz-Zippel Lemma.

# Functionality $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{VOLE}}^{\ell,p,k}$

<span id="page-9-0"></span>The functionality interacts with a sender S, receiver R, and adversary A.

On input  $\alpha \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  from R, the functionality does the following:

- Sample  $r, \beta \leftarrow \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^{\ell}$ , and set  $\tau = r\alpha + \beta$ .
  - If S is corrupted: receive  $\mathbf{r}, \boldsymbol{\tau}$  from  $\mathcal{A}$  and recompute  $\boldsymbol{\beta} = \boldsymbol{\tau} \mathbf{r}\alpha$ .
  - If R is corrupted: receive  $\beta$  from A and recompute  $\tau = r\alpha + \beta$ .
- Output  $(r, \tau)$  to S and  $\beta$  to R.

**Figure 1:** Ideal functionality for vector oblivious linear evaluation over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .

Commitments with MACs. We can view each output of a VOLE as an information-theoretic MAC on the value r[i], which commits the prover to r[i]. We write [x] to denote that the prover holds  $x, \tau_x \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , while the verifier holds  $\beta_x$  and the fixed MAC key  $\alpha \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ . To open a commitment to x, the prover sends  $x, \tau_x$  and the verifier checks that  $\tau_x = x\alpha + \beta_x$ . It is easy to see that cheating in an opening requires guessing the random MAC key  $\alpha$ , so happens with probability  $1/p^k$ .

Since  $\alpha$  is the same for each commitment, these commitments are linearly homomorphic. Indeed, given two commitments [x], [y], the parties can obtain [x+y] by computing x+y,  $\tau_x+\tau_y$  and  $\beta_x+\beta_y$ , respectively. Similarly, we can do multiplication by constant, and addition by constant c (here, the verifier adds  $\alpha c$  to  $\beta_x$ , while the prover adds c to x). We overload the + and + operators to denote these operations being performed on the commitments.

The transformation (Figure 2). Given the linearly homomorphic commitment scheme based on VOLE, obtaining a ZK proof is relatively straightforward. First, the prover commits to its proof string  $\pi$ , by sending each component masked with a random VOLE commitment. The parties then run the IP-LOVe protocol as usual, until the query phase. Here, each linear query is computed by applying the linear function to the committed  $\pi$ , followed by opening the result to check it gives the correct value. In § B, we prove the following.

<span id="page-9-1"></span>**Theorem 1.** Suppose  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  is a public-coin IP-LOVe for relation  $\mathcal{R}$ , satisfying completeness, soudness error  $\epsilon$  and honest-verifier zero-knowledge. Then,  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$  is an honest-verifier zero-knowledge proof for relation  $\mathcal{R}$ , with soundness error  $\epsilon + p^{-k}$ . Furthermore, if  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  is a proof of knowledge, then so is  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$ .

Optimizations: Random proof elements, and subfield VOLE. We describe two simple optimizations, which reduce communication in certain cases.

Firstly, in our protocols, the proof string  $\pi$  will often contain many random field elements; clearly, the values  $d_i$  in Step 2 of the Input Phase (cf. Figure 2) do not need to be sent in this case, since P can choose  $\pi[i] = r[i]$ .

Secondly, when working over an extension field  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , sometimes it is known that  $\pi$  will consist mainly of elements in the base field  $\mathbb{F}_p$  (viewed as a subset of  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  by a fixed embedding). In this case, we can optimize communication by using *subfield* VOLE instead of VOLE over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ . In subfield VOLE [BCG<sup>+</sup>19b],  $\mathbf{r}$  is sampled as a uniform vector over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  instead of  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , while the

## Transformation $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}} \to \Pi_{\mathsf{ZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$

<span id="page-10-1"></span>Let  $\ell$  be the length of the proof string in  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ , the underlying IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .

Input phase: The prover, on input the witness w, chooses the proof string  $\pi \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^{\ell}$  according to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ .

- 1. The parties call  $\mathcal{F}_{VOLE}^{\ell,p,k}$ . View the outputs as random commitments  $[r[1]], \ldots, [r[\ell]]$ , where P learns  $r[i] \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .
- <span id="page-10-2"></span>2. P sends  $d_i = r[i] - \pi[i]$ , for  $i = 1, ..., \ell$ .
- 3. Compute the commitments  $[\boldsymbol{\pi}[i]] = [\boldsymbol{r}[i]] d_i$ .

**Protocol:** The parties exchange messages in the protocol, according to  $\Pi_{LOVe}$ .

Query phase: Let  $(z_j, y_j) \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^{\ell} \times \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , for  $j \in [q]$ , be the oracle queries defined by  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  (known to both parties, since  $\Pi$  is public-coin). For each j:

- 1. Compute  $[\mu_j] = \sum_{i=1}^{\ell} z_j[i] \cdot [\pi[i]] y_j$
- 2. P sends  $\tau_{\mu_j}$  (the MAC on  $\mu_j$ ) to V, who checks that  $\tau_{\mu_j} = \beta_{\mu_j}$ .

The verifier outputs 1 if all checks pass.

Figure 2: Zero-knowledge proof from VOLE and IP with LOVe.

MACs  $\tau$  and keys  $\alpha, \beta$  are still computed over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ . This allows P to commit to values from the subfield  $\mathbb{F}_p$  (which may be small), by sending only elements from  $\mathbb{F}_p$ , while still achieving soundness error  $p^{-k}$ . Note that this still allows committing to an extension field element  $x \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  if needed, by decomposing x into a linear combination of  $\mathbb{F}_p$  elements, and committing to each component separately (this works because the MACs are linear over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ ).

When analyzing the complexity of our protocols, we assume that the above two optimizations have been applied.

## <span id="page-10-0"></span>3 Stackable Public Coin IPs with LOVe

In this section, we show that when both P and V agree on m relations  $\mathcal{R}_1, \ldots, \mathcal{R}_m$  and instances  $x_1, \ldots, x_m$  that can each be proven using (public coin HVZK) IPs with LOVe over the same field  $\mathbb{F}_p$ , then we can construct a communication-efficient protocol showing that at least one of the statements was true. Following the terminology of stacked garbling [HK20b], we sometimes refer to this as a *stacked proof*. Formally, the goal of P is to show that  $(x_1, \ldots, x_m) \in L(\mathcal{R}_{OR})$  where

$$(x_1,\ldots,x_m)\in L(\mathcal{R}_{\mathtt{OR}})\iff x_1\in L(\mathcal{R}_1)\vee\cdots\vee x_m\in L(\mathcal{R}_m).$$

Throughout this section, we will write  $\hat{x}$  as a short-hand for  $x_1, \ldots, x_m$  when the statements are clear from the context. Suppose we have IPs with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  for each instance  $x_i$ , with message complexity  $\alpha_i$ . The classic OR-proof technique by Cramer et al. [CDS94] can be used to give an IP with LOVe with message complexity  $\approx \sum_{i \in [m]} \alpha_i$ . This would be done by running all m proofs in parallel (which means sending messages for all of them), and then showing that at least one finished with the expected output using [CDS94]. We show how to instead reduce the message complexity of such a proof to  $2mk + \max\{\alpha_i\}$ , where the soundness error grows by  $\approx p^{-k}$ . We also give a variant where the message complexity scales with  $O(\log m)$ , instead of 2m.

Towards this, we introduce the notion of equisimulatable IPs with LOVe. The idea is that we can compress the messages for the different proof branches sent by P in such a way that for the true branch, the correct message can be recovered by V. The distribution of the values for non-taken branches which V will obtain is indistinguishable from a real protocol execution.

For example, assume that in the  $\Pi_1$  branch, P sends one  $\mathbb{F}_p$  element that appears uniformly random to V, while in the  $\Pi_2$  branch it sends two such elements with the same property. To achieve equisimulatability, if P actually proves the first branch to be true then it can always append a uniformly random element to the message it sends to V, whereas in the second case it just sends the actual message. In both cases, the distribution of the message sent by P is identical and V cannot identify which branch was taken by P.

Formally, for m statements with protocols  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$ , we use the following two algorithms, which should satisfy the definition below.

- The "combined prover" algorithm  $\mathcal{CP}$  takes as input instances  $x_1, \ldots x_m$ , instance index i, round index h, and prover message  $\mathbf{a}_h \in \mathbb{F}_p^{r_h^p}$ , and outputs a message  $c \in \mathbb{F}_p^*$ , which encodes  $\mathbf{a}_h$  while disguising it to hide the index i.
- The "decode" algorithm dec takes as input instances  $x_1, \ldots x_m$ , index i, round index h, and combined prover message  $c \in \mathbb{F}_p^*$ , and recovers  $a'_h \in \mathbb{F}_p^{r_h^p}$ .

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Definition 5** (Equisimulatable IPs with LOVe). Let  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$  be protocols such that each  $\Pi_i$  is an IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  for the relation  $\mathcal{R}_i$  with round complexity  $t_i$ . We say that  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$  are equisimulatable if there exist two algorithms  $\mathcal{CP}$  and  $\operatorname{dec}$  such that:

1. If  $\mathbf{a}_h \leftarrow \Pi_i(s_{h-1}^{\mathsf{P}}, \mathbf{e}_h)$ , where  $\Pi_i$ 's inputs are from an honest execution of  $\Pi_i$ , then

$$dec(\hat{x}, i, h, \mathcal{CP}(\hat{x}, i, h, \mathbf{a}_h)) = \mathbf{a}_h.$$

2. For any i, j, the distributions  $\{\mathcal{CP}(\hat{x}, i, h, \mathbf{a}_h) \mid \mathbf{a}_h \leftarrow \Pi_i(s_{h-1}^P, \mathbf{e}_h)\}_{h \in [t_i]}$  and  $\{\mathcal{CP}(\hat{x}, j, h, \mathbf{a}_h) \mid \mathbf{a}_h \leftarrow \Pi_j(s_{h-1}^P, \mathbf{e}_h)\}_{h \in [t_j]}$ , where both the inputs of  $\Pi_i$  and  $\Pi_j$  come from honest executions, are perfectly indistinguishable.

We say that  $\mathcal{CP}$  has message complexity  $\alpha$  if the total number of  $\mathbb{F}_p$  elements generated by  $\mathcal{CP}$  for all  $h \in [\max_{i \in [m]} t_i]$  is at most  $\alpha$ .

In our constructions of IPs with LOVe, all prover messages will appear uniformly random. We show below that this implies both the zero-knowledge property and equisimulatability, which gives us an easy criterion for proving that an IP-LOVe can be stacked. We prove the following lemma in § C.

<span id="page-11-1"></span>**Lemma 1.** Let  $\Pi$  be an IP-LOVe for proving relation  $\mathcal{R}$ , satisfying completeness, where V accepts iff all queries are accepting. If the messages from P in an honest execution are (perfectly) indistinguishable from random, it holds that

- 1.  $\Pi$  is honest-verifier zero-knowledge; and
- 2. m such instances of  $\Pi$  (potentially for different relations  $\mathcal{R}' \neq \mathcal{R}$ ) are equisimulatable (cf. Definition 5).

### <span id="page-12-0"></span>3.1 Stacking with LOVe

Using the concept of equisimulatability of protocols we now show how to lower the message complexity when proving  $\mathcal{R}_{OR}$ . The protocol, given in Figure 3, is inspired by the stacked garbling approach [HK20b], although uses a very different technique.

We start with m equisimulatable IPs with LOVe  $\Pi_i$ , over  $\mathbb{F}_p$ , for proving individual relations  $\mathcal{R}_i$ . Note that p can be any prime power, with no restrictions on size. We construct a protocol  $\Pi_{0R}$ , defined over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , which works as follows. P, having only  $\boldsymbol{w}_{i^*}$  for one of the statements  $x_{i^*}$ , will generate the oracle string  $\boldsymbol{\pi}$  by running  $\Pi_{i^*}$ 's first step to create  $\boldsymbol{\pi}_{i^*}$ , which it then pads with extra random data, and embeds in to  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ . Then, P and V will simultaneously run all  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$ , with the following modification: P's message  $c_h$  to V in round h will be determined from  $\boldsymbol{a}_{h,i}$  using the combined prover algorithm  $\mathcal{CP}$ , while V extracts the message  $\boldsymbol{a}_{h,i}$  for each of the instances from  $c_h$  using dec. Due to equisimulatability, V can now execute all instances in parallel but cannot tell which of these is the true one. Conversely, since all  $\Pi_i$  are public coin, V sends a randomness string that is long enough for any of the m instances in round h. The message complexity is now determined by  $\mathcal{CP}$  and not the individual proofs.

The challenge now, is that V cannot simply perform the oracle queries for all  $\Pi_i$ , since this would reveal the index  $i^*$  of the true statement. Instead, we perform a [CDS94]-style OR-proof to shows that at least one of the query's for the  $\Pi_i$  is accepting. Recall, the basic idea behind [CDS94] is that given m  $\Sigma$ -protocols for proving relations, an OR proof can be done by having the prover choose the random challenge  $f_i$  for m-1 of the instances, so it can simulate the correct messages to be sent in every false instance, without knowing a witness. Then, after receiving the m initial messages of each  $\Sigma$ -protocol, the verifier picks a challenge f, which defines the challenge  $f_{i^*} = f - \sum_i f_i$  corresponding to the true instance  $i^*$  (while hiding  $i^*$  from V).

We instantiate the above, where each "instance" corresponds to a small protocol for verifying that the oracle query  $\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}_i, \boldsymbol{z}_i \rangle = y_i$  for protocol  $\Pi_i$  succeeds, without actually performing the query. To carry out one such small protocol, P includes an extra random value  $r_i$  in the proof string  $\boldsymbol{\pi} := (\boldsymbol{\pi}_i || r_i)$  (one such  $r_i$  for each branch).

For the true  $\Pi_{i^*}$  the prover later sends  $d_{i^*} := r_{i^*}$  to V. Using the random challenge  $f_{i^*}$ , the verifier then makes a query to test that  $\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_{i^*} || f_{i^*} \rangle =_? y_{i^*} + f_{i^*} d_{i^*}$ . This clearly accepts if  $d_{i^*} = r_{i^*}$  and the original query  $(y_{i^*} =_? \langle \boldsymbol{\pi}_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{z}_{i^*} \rangle)$  accepts.

Importantly, if P does *not* know a valid witness, but can pick  $f_i$  in advance, then P can cheat by setting  $d_i = (\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}_i, \boldsymbol{z}_i \rangle - y_i)/f_i + r_i$ , causing the aforementioned oracle query to succeed as well. This is the crux of Phase II of the protocol in Figure 3.

Note that the theorem below assumes that each protocol  $\Pi_i$  uses only one query. As discussed at the end of § 2.1, this can always be achieved by combining queries into one (at the cost of one additional round). The proof of the following theorem can be found in § D.1.

<span id="page-12-1"></span>**Theorem 2.** Let  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$  be protocols such that each  $\Pi_i$  is a  $t_i$ -round, 1-query, equisimulatable Public Coin IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  for relation  $\mathcal{R}_i$  with oracle length  $\ell_i$  and soundness error  $\epsilon_i$ . Furthermore, assume that  $\mathcal{CP}$  has overall message complexity  $\alpha$ . Then the protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{OR}}$  in Figure 3 is a Public Coin IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  for the relation  $\mathcal{R}_{\mathsf{OR}}$  with

- 1. round complexity  $3 + \max_{i \in [m]} t_i$ ;
- 2. oracle length  $m + \max_{i \in [m]} \ell_i$ ;
- 3. query complexity m;

#### Protocol $\Pi_{\tt OR}$

<span id="page-13-0"></span>Let  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$  be protocols such that each  $\Pi_i$  is  $t_i$ -round, 1-query equisimulatable public coin IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  for relation  $\mathcal{R}_i$  with oracle length  $\ell_i$ .

Both P and V have inputs  $x_1, \ldots, x_m$  where  $x_i \in L(\mathcal{R}_i)$ . P additionally has input  $\boldsymbol{w}_{i^*}$  for (at least) one  $i^* \in [m]$  such that  $(x_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{w}_{i^*}) \in \mathcal{R}_{i^*}$ . We define  $\ell := \max_{i \in [m]} \ell_i$ , and  $t := \max_{i \in [m]} t_i$ . Let  $\boldsymbol{z}_{k,i} = \overline{\boldsymbol{z}}_{k,i} | \underbrace{0 \cdots 0}_{\ell-\ell \text{ times}}$ .

<span id="page-13-3"></span>1. P simulates  $\Pi_{i^*}$  on input  $(x_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{w}_{i^*})$  to obtain the string  $\boldsymbol{\pi}_{i^*}$ . It then sets

$$\pi' = \pi_{i^*} \| \underbrace{0 \cdots 0}_{\ell - \ell_{i^*} \text{ times}} \text{ and } \pi = \pi' \| r_1 \cdots r_m \|_{\ell - \ell_{i^*}}$$

where all  $r_i$  are chosen uniformly at random in  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .

(Phase I: Running the stacked proof)

- <span id="page-13-2"></span>2. Define  $s_0^{\mathsf{P}} := (x_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{w}_{i^*})$ . For  $h \in [t]$ ,  $\mathsf{P}$  and  $\mathsf{V}$  do the following:
  - (a) Let  $r_{h,i}^{\mathsf{V}}$  be the length of the challenge that  $\mathsf{V}$  would send for protocol  $\Pi_i$  in round h.  $\mathsf{V}$  sets  $r_h = \max_{i \in [m]} r_{h,i}^{\mathsf{V}}$ , samples  $e_h \leftarrow \mathbb{F}_p^{r_h}$  uniformly at random and then sends it to  $\mathsf{P}$ .
  - (b) P sets  $(\boldsymbol{a}_h, s_h^{\mathsf{P}}) \leftarrow \Pi_{i^*}(s_{h-1}^{\mathsf{P}}, \boldsymbol{e}_h)$  where P only uses the first  $r_{h,i^*}^{\mathsf{P}}$  elements of  $\boldsymbol{e}_h$  as required by  $\Pi_{i^*}$ . It then computes  $c_h \leftarrow \mathcal{CP}(\hat{x}, h, i^*, \boldsymbol{a}_h)$  and sends  $c_h$  to V.

(Phase II: Running the small OR proof)

- <span id="page-13-1"></span>3. For  $i \in [m] \setminus \{i^*\}$ , P samples  $f_i \leftarrow \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^*$  uniformly at random and computes  $(\boldsymbol{z}_i, y_i) \leftarrow \mathcal{Q}(x_i, \{\boldsymbol{e}_h, \operatorname{dec}(\hat{x}, h, i, c_h)\}_{h \in [t_i]})$ . It then computes  $d_i := (\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}', \boldsymbol{z}_i \rangle - y_i)/f_i + r_i$ , and defines  $d_{i^*} := r_{i^*}$ . Finally, P sends  $(d_1, \ldots, d_m) \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^m$  to V.
- <span id="page-13-4"></span>4. V samples  $f \leftarrow \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  uniformly at random and sends it to P.
- 5. P sets  $f_{i^*} := f \sum_{i \in [m] \setminus \{i^*\}} f_i$  and sends  $f_1, \ldots, f_{m-1}$  to V. V computes the last challenge  $f_m = f \sum_{i=1}^{m-1} f_i$ .
- 6. Let  $\beta_i \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^m$  be the vector that is  $f_i$  in the *i*th position and 0 everywhere else. For  $i \in [m]$ , V first generates  $(z_i, y_i)$  like P in Step 3. Then, for each  $i \in [m]$  it sends the query  $(z_i || \beta_i, y_i + f_i d_i)$  to the oracle. V accepts if all queries are true.

**Figure 3:** The protocol  $\Pi_{OR}$  for an OR-statement.

- 4. message complexity  $2mrk + \alpha$  elements of  $\mathbb{F}_p$ ; and
- 5. soundness error  $\sum_{i \in [m]} \epsilon_i + 1/p^k$ .

If  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$  are all proofs of knowledge, then so is  $\Pi_{OR}$ .

Generalizing to threshold proofs. In [CDS94] the authors describe how to additionally construct proofs of partial knowledge for any threshold, i.e., how to show that r out of the m statements are true. Their technique, together with a modification of  $\Pi_{0R}$ , can be used to construct a proof

in our setting where we implicitly only communicate the transcript of r statements, and not all m of them.  $\Pi_{OR}$  can then be seen as a special case where r = 1, where for general r we use Shamir secret-sharing, instead of additive shares of the verifier's challenge f. More details are found in § D.2.

#### 3.2 Recursive Stacking

 $\Pi_{0R}$  from § 3.1 has the drawback that to verify one out of m statements, we still need O(m) communication complexity. We now give an alternative construction that obtains an overhead only logarithmic in m.

The idea behind this alternative protocol is as follows:

- 1. Any IP-LOVe  $\Pi$  accepts iff all queries are accepting. Assuming (wlog) there is only one query, this means that for the query (z, y), we have  $\langle \pi, z \rangle = y$  i.e.  $\mu := \langle \pi, z \rangle y = 0$ .
- 2. If we simulate the parallel evaluation of m protocol instances as in  $\Pi_{0R}$ , then if for any branch  $i^*$  it holds that  $\mu_{i^*} = 0$ , then  $i^*$  must correspond to a "true" branch.
- 3. If the prover can then compute the product  $\mu_1 \cdots \mu_m$ , and prove that this is 0, then at least one  $\mu_j$  was 0 to begin with.

A naive instantiation of the above approach is to perform m-1 multiplications between the m implicit variables  $\mu_i$ , and open the result. However, this would still give O(m) overhead. Instead, we carefully apply recursion to make this overhead logarithmic. Here, we use the fact that after combining two protocols  $\Pi_1, \Pi_2$  with the multiplication method sketched above, we can obtain a protocol which itself is again stackable: considering all multiplications as a tree, we only have to provide those values necessary to prove a correct multiplication that are on the path from  $\mu_{i^*}$  to the root.

The actual proof for this proceeds in the following steps:

- 1. First we show that if  $\Pi_1$ ,  $\Pi_2$  fulfill similar conditions as in  $\Pi_{0R}$  then we can combine them using the multiplication-based approach.
- 2. Next, we show that starting with 2m proofs  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_{2m}$  with similar conditions as in  $\Pi_{0R}$ , if we construct proofs  $\Pi'_i$  from  $\Pi_{2i-1}, \Pi_{2i}$  using the multiplication method, then  $\Pi'_1, \ldots, \Pi'_m$  again fulfill the same conditions i.e. are stackable. Also, this can be done with an overhead that is only as big as one  $\Pi_i$  plus one multiplication.
- 3. Finally, by recursing the previous step, we obtain the log-overhead OR-proof.

The full construction, together with its proof, can be found in  $\S D.3$ . One drawback of this approach, though, is that unlike our previous OR-proof based method, it does not give rise to a t-out-of-m proof.

# <span id="page-14-0"></span>4 IPs with LOVe for Circuit Satisfiability

In this section, we present our protocols for proving circuit satisfiability of arithmetic and boolean circuits. First, in §4.1, we define a high-level *commit-and-prove* (C&P) syntax for IPs with LOVe.

This makes it simpler to specify protocols, and also aligns with the VOLE instantiation used in § 2.2. We then describe a simple protocol for arithmetic circuit satisfiability over a finite field  $\mathbb{F}_p$  (§ 4.2), with communication cost of 3 field elements per multiplication gate for large p. We next show how we can utilize fully linear PCPs by Boneh et al. [BBC<sup>+</sup>19] to reduce the amortized multiplication cost to just over 1  $\mathbb{F}_p$  element per multiplication gate (§ 4.3), when the circuit size is large enough. The same approach also works over binary fields with the same cost (§ 4.4).

To highlight the power of our disjunctive proof from §3.1, we point out that all of these protocols fulfil the criteria of our stacking approach, so lead to efficient proofs of disjunctions. Recall that from Lemma 1, it suffices that the sender's messages in the IP-LOVe are uniformly random, which we show for all protocols in this section.

### <span id="page-15-0"></span>4.1 Defining C&P Protocols

We now define a high-level, commit-and-prove (C&P) syntax for specifying a large class of IPs with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_{n^k}$ .

We require that the witness in the IP with LOVe is a vector  $\mathbf{w} = (w_1, \dots, w_n)$  of  $\mathbb{F}_p$  elements, and that the prover chooses the proof string  $\pi = (w_1, \dots, w_n, r_1, \dots, r_t)$ , where each  $r_i$  is uniformly random. As remarked in § 2.2, we may sometimes wish to mix values in  $\mathbb{F}_p$  and  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , so allow the possibility that some  $r_i$ 's are sampled from  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  and others are in the base field.

Following the notation used for homomorphic commitments in § 2.2, we write [x] to denote that some value x is committed to by the prover P. Initially, P is committed to every element  $w_i, r_i$  of the proof string  $\pi$ . Subsequently, we allow the parties to perform affine operations on these committed values, obtaining new commitments.

Finally, we model the linear verification oracle by a special instruction AssertZero, which checks whether its input is a commitment to 0. Since any commitment comes from an affine function of  $\pi$ , this exactly models linear queries to  $\pi$ . We then specify a C&P protocol over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  as follows:

**Input phase:** P has input the witness  $w_1, \ldots, w_n \in \mathbb{F}_p$ , and samples random values  $r_1, \ldots, r_t \leftarrow \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^t$  (optionally, some  $r_i$ 's may be in  $\mathbb{F}_p$ ).

P inputs the proof string  $\pi = (w_1, \dots, w_n, r_1, \dots, r_t)$ .

**Protocol phase:** The parties, given commitments  $[w_1], \ldots, [w_n]$ , run a sequence of instructions of the following types:

- Random( $\mathbb{F}$ ) (for  $\mathbb{F} \in {\mathbb{F}_p, \mathbb{F}_{p^k}}$ ): Retrieve [r], where  $r \in \mathbb{F}$  is the next suitable random value in  $\pi$ .
- Send<sub>[P $\to$ V]</sub>(x): Sends value  $x \in \mathbb{F}_p$  from P to V.
- Send<sub>[V \rightarrow P]</sub>(x): Sends value  $x \in \mathbb{F}_p$  from V to P.
- [z] = a[x] + b[y] + c: Define the commitment [z] for z = ax + by + c, given some public values a, b, c.
- AssertZero([x]): Asserts to V that [x] is a commitment to x = 0.

Output phase: If none of the AssertZero instructions failed, the verifier outputs 1. Otherwise, it outputs 0.

As described previously, by translating AssertZero calls into linear oracle queries, any C&P protocol specified in the above syntax defines a valid IP-LOVe.

#### <span id="page-16-0"></span>4.2 C&P IP with LOVe for Arithmetic Circuits

We now show a C&P IP with LOVe for arithmetic circuit satisfiability that satisfies (1) completeness, (2) soundness, and (3) that all inputs to Send are indistinguishable from random. Thus, by Lemma 1 we conclude that our protocol is also zero knowledge and supports disjunctions. We prove circuit satisfiability over a field  $\mathbb{F}_p$ , but define a protocol over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  for some  $k \geq 1$ , so that soundness can be boosted if necessary.

We begin by defining two auxiliary "instructions": (1) Fix, which allows P to fix a random commitment to a value of its choosing, and (2) Reveal, which opens a commitment to V and checks this was done properly using AssertZero.

- Fix $(x) \to [x]$ : On input  $x \in \mathbb{F}$  (where  $\mathbb{F} \in {\mathbb{F}_p, \mathbb{F}_{p^k}}$ ) from P, output a commitment [x]. This is implemented as:
  - 1.  $\mathsf{Random}(\mathbb{F}) \to [r]$ .
  - 2.  $\operatorname{Send}_{[\mathsf{P}\to\mathsf{V}]}(x-r)\to y.$
  - 3.  $[r] + y \rightarrow [x]$ .
- Reveal([x])  $\to x$ : On input commitment [x], output x to V. This is implemented as:
  - 1.  $Send_{[P \to V]}(x)$ .
  - 2. AssertZero([x] x).

Our protocol works as follows. Let  $C: \mathbb{F}_p^n \to \mathbb{F}_p$  be a circuit known to both parties consisting of Add and Mult gates, which we want to show evaluates to zero on some input. The prover provides the witness  $\boldsymbol{w} \in \mathbb{F}_p^n$  as input, so the parties initially get commitments  $[w_1], \ldots, [w_n]$ . The parties then execute the following steps to evaluate the circuit C, where we denote by  $C^*$  the set of multiplication gates in C.

1. For each gate in C, in topological order, proceed as follows:

```
\mathsf{Add}([x],[y]) \,:\, \mathsf{Output}\,\, [x] + [y].
```

 $\mathsf{Mult}([x],[y]): \mathrm{Run}\;\mathsf{Random}(\mathbb{F}_{p^k}) \to [a],\;\mathsf{Fix}(xy) \to [z],\;\mathrm{and}\;\mathsf{Fix}(ay) \to [c].\;\mathrm{Output}\;[z],\;\mathrm{and}\;$  store the commitments [a] and [c].

- 2. Run  $\mathsf{Send}_{[\mathsf{V}\to\mathsf{P}]}(e)$ , where  $e\in_R \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .
- 3. For each  $i \in [|C^*|]$  let  $[x_i]$  and  $[y_i]$  denote the inputs and  $[z_i]$ ,  $[a_i]$  and  $[c_i]$  denote the outputs and stored values in the *i*-th call to Mult. Then run AssertMult $([x_i], [y_i], [z_i], [a_i], [c_i], e)$ .
- 4. Run AssertZero( $[z_{out}]$ ), where  $[z_{out}]$  is the commitment to the output of C.

The subprotocol AssertMult used above works as follows:

AssertMult([x], [y], [z], [a], [c], e):

- 1. Run Reveal( $[\varepsilon]$ ), where  $[\varepsilon] = e[x] [a]$ .
- 2. Run AssertZero $(e[z] [c] \varepsilon[y])$ .

Before proving security, observe that the communication complexity is 3 field elements per multiplication gate, of which one is over F<sup>p</sup> (for fixing xy) and two over F<sup>p</sup> <sup>k</sup> (for fixing ay, and revealing ε).

<span id="page-17-3"></span>Theorem 3. Let R be a relation that can be represented by an arithmetic circuit C over F<sup>p</sup> such that R(x, w) = 1 ⇔ C(w) = 0. Then the above protocol is a C&P IP with LOVe over F<sup>p</sup> <sup>k</sup> for R, such that (1) completeness holds, (2) soundness holds with soundness error p −k , (3) all inputs to Send are perfectly indistinguishable from random, and (4) the protocol is a proof of knowledge.

The proof can be found in § [E.1.](#page-36-0) At a high level, soundness holds by the security of the Mult operation, where a malicious prover essentially needs to align its invalid Fix values with the verifier's random e value, which happens with probability 1/|F<sup>p</sup> <sup>k</sup> |.

## <span id="page-17-0"></span>4.3 Improved C&P IP with LOVe for Arithmetic Circuits

The protocol from § [4.2](#page-16-0) communicates 3 field elements per verified multiplication. We now present an alternative multiplication verification procedure, called AssertMultVec, that builds on a protocol from Boneh et al. [\[BBC](#page-25-4)+19][5](#page-17-1) . AssertMultVec simultaneously proves n multiplication instances at the cost of communicating n+O(log(n)) F-elements. In particular, for F<sup>p</sup> for p = 2<sup>61</sup> −1 we require around 64.3 bits of communication per multiplication.

Boneh et al. [\[BBC](#page-25-4)+19] introduce a logarithmic-sized proof for "parallel-sum" circuits. In a "parallel-sum" circuit, identical subcircuits C <sup>0</sup> are evaluated in parallel on possibly different inputs, with the sum of the output of each C <sup>0</sup> being the output of the overall circuit. The high-level idea then is to embed checks for different instances of C <sup>0</sup> within a single polynomial, allowing the verifier to verify n instances of C 0 in parallel. This protocol, when letting C <sup>0</sup> be a multiplication gate, can then be used to simultaneously verify the sum of n multiplications. We call this protocol AssertDotProduct.

In more detail, the AssertDotProduct protocol works as follows. Suppose P wants to prove that [z] = P i∈[n] [x<sup>i</sup> ][y<sup>i</sup> ]. P begins by defining n polynomials f1, . . . , fn/<sup>2</sup> , g1, . . . , gn/<sup>2</sup> such that fi(j) = x(j−1)n/2+<sup>i</sup> and gi(j) = y(j−1)n/2+<sup>i</sup> , and then computing h = P <sup>i</sup>∈[n/2] fig<sup>i</sup> . P then commits to h by committing to its coefficients (denoted as [h]). V defines its own polynomials f 0 i , g<sup>0</sup> i over the committed values [x(j−1)n/2+<sup>i</sup> ] and [y(j−1)n/2+<sup>i</sup> ] to check that P <sup>i</sup>∈[n/2] f 0 i g 0 <sup>i</sup> = h. By Schwartz-Zippel, this can be done by checking that

<span id="page-17-2"></span>
$$\sum_{i \in [n/2]} f_i'(r)g_i'(r) = h(r) \tag{1}$$

for a random r chosen by V. Here, observe that the evaluation of f 0 i , g<sup>0</sup> i , h in a public constant r boils down to multiplying the committed coefficients of each polynomial with appropriate powers of r and summing up the result, both of which are local operations. Then, verifying [Equation 1](#page-17-2) after fixing r is again a dot product check, although over vectors of length n/2, and we can recursively apply AssertDotProduct until n = 1. Note that only two F<sup>p</sup> <sup>r</sup> -elements are communicated during one iteration of AssertDotProduct: when committing to h and sending r. See [Figure 4](#page-18-0) for a formal presentation of the protocol. There, for the base-case of AssertDotProduct, we use the multiplication checking procedure from § [4.2.](#page-16-0)

Given AssertDotProduct, we can batch-verify n multiplications as follows:

<span id="page-17-1"></span><sup>5</sup>This approach was recently used in the context of MPC-in-the-head-based ZK protocols [\[dSGOT21\]](#page-27-11).

AssertMultVec
$$([x_1], \ldots, [x_n], [y_1], \ldots, [y_2], [z_1], \ldots, [z_n]) \Rightarrow \forall i \ x_i y_i = z_i$$

- <span id="page-18-0"></span>1. Send<sub>[V \rightarrow P]</sub>(r) for  $r \in_R \mathbb{F}_{p^k} \setminus \{0\}$ .
- 2. AssertDotProduct $(r^1[x_1],\ldots,r^n[x_n],[y_1],\ldots,[y_n],\sum_{i\in[n]}r^i[z_i])$ .

AssertDotProduct
$$([x_1], \ldots, [x_n], [y_1], \ldots, [y_n], [z]) \Rightarrow z = \sum_i x_i y_i$$

#### If $n \leq 2$ :

- 1. For  $i \in [n]$ :  $\mathsf{Mult}([x_i], [y_i]) \to ([z_i], [a_i], [c_i])$ .
- 2. Run  $\mathsf{Send}_{[\mathsf{V}\to\mathsf{P}]}(e)$ , where  $e\in_R \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .
- 3. For  $i \in [n]$ : AssertMult( $[x_i], [y_i], [z_i], [a_i], [c_i], e$ ).
- 4. AssertZero( $\sum_{i \in [n]} [z_i] [z]$ ).

#### Otherwise:

- 1. P defines polynomials of least degree  $f_1, \ldots, f_{n/2}, g_1, \ldots, g_{n/2} \in \mathbb{F}_p[X]$  such that for  $j \in [2]$ :  $f_i(j) = x_{(j-1)n/2+i}, g_i(j) = y_{(j-1)n/2+i}.$ 
  - P defines the polynomial  $h = \sum_{i \in [n/2]} f_i g_i \in \mathbb{F}_p[X]$ . Note that h has degree  $\leq 2$ . Let  $c_0, c_1, c_2$  denote the coefficients of h.
- 2. For  $i \in \{0, 1, 2\}$ :  $Fix(c_i) \to [c_i]$ .
- 3. For  $i \in [n/2]$ : P and V compute (committed) polynomials of least degree  $[f'_i]$  and  $[g'_i]$  satisfying for  $j \in [2]$ :  $f'_i(j) = [x_{(j-1)n/2+i}], g'_i(j) = [y_{(j-1)n/2+i}].$
- 4. Let [h'] be the (committed) polynomial defined by the  $[c_i]$  values.
- 5.  $\mathsf{Send}_{[\mathsf{V}\to\mathsf{P}]}(r)$  where  $r \in_R \mathbb{F}_{p^k} \setminus \{0,1\}$ .
- 6. AssertZero( $\sum_{i \in [2]} [h'](i) [z]$ ).
- 7. AssertDotProduct( $[f_1'](r), \ldots, [f_{n/2}'](r), [g_1'](r), \ldots, [g_{n/2}'](r), [h'](r)$ ).

Figure 4: Protocols for efficient multiplications. See text for necessary notation.

- 1. Assume that n tuples  $[x_i], [y_i], [z_i]$  have been committed by P.
- 2. V chooses a randomization factor r that it sends to P.
- 3. P shows that  $\langle r^i[x_i], [y_i] \rangle = \sum_{i \in [n]} r^i[z_i]$ . Since r is public, computing  $r^i[x_i]$  and  $\sum_{i \in [n]} r^i[z_i]$  is local.

This protocol, called AssertMultVec, is presented in Figure 4.

It is clear that both AssertDotProduct and AssertMultVec are complete and zero-knowledge. The follow theorem, proven in § E.2, shows they are also sound.

<span id="page-18-1"></span>**Theorem 4.** If the protocol AssertMultVec passes, then the input commitments have the required relation except with probability  $\frac{n+4\log n+1}{p^k-2}$ 

An alternative version of AssertMultVec with a soundness error that is only logarithmic in n can be achieved as follows:

AssertMultVec'( $[x_1], ..., [x_n], [y_1], ..., [y_2], [z_1], ..., [z_n]$ ):

- 1.  $\mathsf{Send}_{[\mathsf{V}\to\mathsf{P}]}(r_1,\ldots,r_n)$  for  $r_1,\ldots,r_n\in_R\mathbb{F}_{n^k}$ .
- 2. AssertDotProduct $(r_1[x_1], \ldots, r_n[x_n], [y_1], \ldots, [y_n], \sum_{i \in [n]} r_i[z_i])$ .

One can easily show that AssertMultVec' has the desired soundness, although at the expense of communicating more random elements from V to P. In practice, one can optimize this by having V choose a random PRG seed that it sends to P, with  $r_1, \ldots, r_n$  derived deterministically from the seed.

### <span id="page-19-0"></span>4.4 C&P IP with LOVe for Binary Circuits

The protocol from § 4.3 is agnostic to the underlying field, so we can use p = 2 (and large enough k for soundness) to otain a proof for binary circuits. For  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{40}}$  and a batch size of 1000000 this requires approximately 1.008 bits per verified AND-gate.

One of the downsides to the batching approach is that it is most efficient for large batches of multiplications. When evaluating a disjunctive branch, however, the size of the batch may be limited by the number of multiplications in the branch. This is because we need to "complete" a batch of multiplications before we can apply the OR-proof. Unfortunately, this smaller batch size increases the per-bit communication cost: as an example, a batch size of 100 requires approximately 10 bits per verified AND-gate.

We now present an alternative approach that can achieve a fixed per-bit communication cost of 9 bits per verified AND-gate. This approach uses reverse multiplication friendly embeddings [BMN18, CCXY18] (RFMEs), defined as follows.

**Definition 6.** A  $(k,m)_p$ -RFME is a pair  $(\phi,\psi)$  of linear maps  $\phi: \mathbb{F}_p^k \to \mathbb{F}_{p^m}$  and  $\psi: \mathbb{F}_{p^m} \to \mathbb{F}_p^k$  such that  $\mathbf{x} * \mathbf{y} = \psi(\phi(\mathbf{x}) \cdot \phi(\mathbf{y}))$ , where \* denotes pairwise multiplication.

Cascudo et al. [CCXY18] showed that for p=2 and r<33, there exist  $(3r, 10r-5)_2$ -RFMEs. Noting that for efficiency we would like as small a field as possible, alongside the requirement of have a statistical security parameter of at least 40, we use  $(15, 45)_2$ -RFMEs, and thus work over  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{45}}$ . Thus, we can verify the multiplication of 15-element binary vectors  $[\boldsymbol{x}]$  and  $[\boldsymbol{y}]$  at the cost of a single multiplication in  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{45}}$  as follows. The parties locally compute  $[a] \leftarrow \phi([\boldsymbol{x}])$  and  $[b] \leftarrow \phi([\boldsymbol{y}])$ , compute  $[c] \leftarrow [a] \cdot [b]$  using the multiplication verification protocol over  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{45}}$ , and finally locally compute  $[\boldsymbol{z}] \leftarrow \psi([c])$ . This has a per-multiplication cost of 10 bits per multiplication.

We can do slightly better by having the prover provide the verifier an *advice* vector to help compute [c]. Let  $\mathbf{d}$  be a binary vector for the linear bijection  $f: \mathbb{F}_2^{15} \times \mathbb{F}_2^{30} \to \mathbb{F}_2^{45}$  such that  $f(\mathbf{z}, \mathbf{d}) = \phi(\mathbf{x}) \cdot \phi(\mathbf{y})$ . If  $[\mathbf{z}]$  is provided by the prover, the verifier can *locally* compute [c] by computing  $[c'] \leftarrow f([\mathbf{z}], [\mathbf{d}])$  and then mapping [c'] to its associated element in  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{45}}$ . The parties can then check that  $[c] = [a] \cdot [b]$  as before. Overall this gives a per-bit communication cost of 9 bits. See § G for more details.

# <span id="page-19-1"></span>5 Streaming and Non-Interactive Proofs via Fiat-Shamir

We now show how to modify our previous constructions for arithmetic circuit satisfiability and disjunctions to support streaming, and also be non-interactive via a variant of the Fiat-Shamir transform [FS87]. We first show how to stream our IPs with LOVe, at the cost of increased round

complexity. Then, we show how IPs with LOVe can be transformed into NIZKs (with VOLE preprocessing) with the Fiat-Shamir transform. To analyze the soundness of this approach, we define a form of round-by-round soundness for IPs with LOVe, similar to Canetti et al. [\[CCH](#page-26-10)+19], and show that this is satisfied by our constructions.

## <span id="page-20-0"></span>5.1 Streaming Interactive Proofs

We use the term streaming to refer to a protocol where both the prover and verifier algorithms can be run using only a constant amount of memory, independent of the size of the statement and witness. For disjunctive proofs, we relax this to allow O(m) memory, where m is the maximum number of branches in any disjunction. Note that when looking at a C&P IP with LOVe, in addition to requiring a small memory footprint for P and V, we also need that the linear oracle queries can be performed with small memory. It is enough to require that P can compute the result of each oracle query incrementally during the protocol, and with constant memory; when translating the IP with LOVe into a zero-knowledge proof based on VOLE (§ [2.2\)](#page-8-0), this ensures that the resulting protocol also has constant memory, since each AssertZero can be checked on-the-fly.

Recall that in our protocols for circuit satisfiability, the multiplication gates are all verified in a batch at the end of the computation. This requires storing all commitments created during each multiplication in memory, leading to a memory cost that is linear in the circuit size.

For the more efficient amortized protocol, this drawback seems inherent, however, we can easily avoid it for the simpler protocol from § [4.2,](#page-16-0) by checking multiplications on-the-fly using an independent random challenge from V for each multiplication. The change is very simple, and for completeness, shown in the modified multiplication sub-protocol below.

Streaming Mult([x<sup>i</sup> ], [y<sup>i</sup> ]): To evaluate the i-th multiplication gate:

- 1. Run Random(Fp) to get [r<sup>i</sup> ] and Random(F<sup>p</sup> <sup>k</sup> ) to get [r 0 i ], [a<sup>i</sup> ].
- 2. Run Fix(xiyi) → [z<sup>i</sup> ], and Fix(aiyi) → [c<sup>i</sup> ].
- 3. Run Send[V→P] (e<sup>i</sup> ← F<sup>p</sup> <sup>k</sup> ).
- 4. Run Reveal([ε]), where [ε] = e<sup>i</sup> [x<sup>i</sup> ] − [a<sup>i</sup> ].
- 5. Run AssertZero(e<sup>i</sup> [zi ] − [c<sup>i</sup> ] − ε<sup>i</sup> [yi ]).

For the soundness of this protocol, following the exact same analysis as in § [4.2,](#page-16-0) we get a soundness error of p −k , due to the random choice of each challenge e<sup>i</sup> . In § [5.3,](#page-21-0) we show that this protocol also satisfies round-by-round soundness, implying that it can be made non-interactive using Fiat-Shamir.

## <span id="page-20-1"></span>5.2 Batching AssertZero with Constant Memory

Recall from §[2](#page-6-0) that often, it is useful to combine all the AssertZero statements (that is, linear oracle queries) of an IP with LOVe into just one check, by batching them together at the end. However, just as with our original circuit evaluation protocol, this is not amenable to constant memory for streaming algorithms. Instead, in [Figure 5](#page-21-1) we give an alternative transformation, which transforms any C&P IP with LOVe ΠLOVe to have just one AssertZero, without storing all intermediate values.

#### Transformation Stream(ΠLOVe)

- <span id="page-21-1"></span>1. P first commits to its inputs as in ΠLOVe.
- 2. Initialize a dummy commitment [z] := 0.
- 3. For the i-th AssertZero([γ<sup>i</sup> ]) instruction in ΠLOVe
  - V sends a random challenge e<sup>i</sup> ∈ Fp<sup>k</sup> .
  - Update [z] = [z] + e<sup>i</sup> [γi ].
- 4. All other instructions are kept the same.
- 5. At the end of the program, run AssertZero([z]).

Figure 5: The transformation to batch AssertZero in a streamable manner.

The idea is that, instead of taking a combination of all AssertZero's at the end, we can compute this combination in an incremental manner. At each AssertZero on input [γ], we take a random challenge e and add e·[γ] to a running state [z]. At the end of the computation, to verify that all the γ values were zero, we simply run AssertZero on [z]. Since the challenge e is only sampled after the value being checked for zero was committed, it holds from the argument for the batching method from § [2](#page-6-0) that cheating in this check requires guessing a random challenge, so this transformation only increases the soundness error by p −k .

## <span id="page-21-0"></span>5.3 Round-by-round soundness for IPs with LOVe

The intuition behind the definition of Round-by-round soundness is that in any given round of a protocol Π, one can define a function State, which, given the current transcript of Π, outputs a bit indicating whether Π's execution will fail. We require that, if State predicts failure in some round i, then State also predicts failure in round i + 1, with high probability over the verifier's random challenge.

Previously, round-by-round soundness has been defined for standard interactive proofs [\[CCH](#page-26-10)+19], without any form of oracle queries. Below is our modified definition, tailored to IPs with LOVe. Note that unlike the Zero Knowledge setting, where State's inputs are publicly known, here we give the State function also the oracle string π as input; without this, there would be no easy way for the State algorithm to simulate whether a given oracle query to π would succeed or not. Note also that since we assume Π is public-coin, the oracle query inputs (z, y) are all computable given the complete transcript, so they are also known to State.

<span id="page-21-2"></span>Definition 7. Let Π be a t-round, public-coin IP-LOVe for a relation R. We say that Π has roundby-round soundness error if there exists a deterministic (not necessarily efficient) function State that takes input an instance x, proof π and partial transcript T , and outputs accept or reject, such that the following properties hold:

- 1. If x /∈ L, then State(x,π, ∅) = reject.
- 2. If State(x,π, T ) = reject for a partial transcript T up to round h ∈ [t], then for every potential prover message ah,

$$\Pr_{\boldsymbol{e}_{h+1} \leftarrow \mathbb{F}^{r_{h+1}^{\vee}}}[\mathsf{State}(\boldsymbol{x}, \boldsymbol{\pi}, \mathcal{T} \| \boldsymbol{a}_h \| \boldsymbol{e}_{h+1}) = \mathsf{accept}] \leq \epsilon$$

3. For any halting transcript  $\mathcal{T}$ , if  $\mathsf{State}(x, \pi, \mathcal{T}) = \mathsf{reject}$  then  $\mathsf{V}$  rejects.

Round-by-round soundness of our protocols for circuit satisfiability. In § F, we show that our IPs with LOVe for circuit satisfiability, including the streamable protocol from § 5.1–5.2, and the efficient batched multiplication protocol from § 4.3 satisfy round-by-round soundness. We also show that the same holds for our stacking protocol from § 3.

Roughly speaking, for our circuit satisfiability protocol, the State algorithm takes as input the proof string  $\pi$ , so can immediately extract the witness and try to verify whether the statement is true. In later rounds, State also checks whether the prover's messages are inconsistent with  $\pi$  and the verifier's challenges, and changes to reject if so. A similar strategy works in all our protocols to show that round-by-round soundness holds.

Soundness of Fiat-Shamir for IPs with LOVe. We now show that the Fiat-Shamir transformation, when applied to a zero-knowledge proof built from VOLE and an IP with LOVe, is sound if the underlying IP with LOVe satisfies round-by-round soundness.

For this, we follow the VOLE-based protocol from § 2.2, while replacing the verifier's random challenges with outputs of a random oracle. We use a slightly augmented VOLE functionality, denoted  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{VOLE+id}}$ , which additionally samples a random identifier id  $\in \{0,1\}^{\lambda}$ , and gives this to both parties after receiving their input. We feed this into the random oracle, which binds the statement and proof to this instance. The result we obtain is similar to the FS transform for interactive oracle proofs [BCS16], with the differences that (1) we start from IPs with LOVe using VOLE preprocessing, and (2) we assume round-by-round soundness, which is a stronger property than state-restoration soundness from [BCS16], but we find it simpler to work with. We prove the following theorem in § F.

<span id="page-22-0"></span>**Theorem 5.** Let  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  be a t-round, 1-query, public-coin IP-LOVe for relation  $\mathcal{R}$  with round-by-round soundness  $\epsilon$ , which is also complete and zero-knowledge. Then, the compiled protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{NIZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$  in Figure 6 is a non-interactive zero-knowledge proof in the  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{VOLE+id}}$ -hybrid model, with soundness error at most

$$p^{-k} + \epsilon t + Q(\epsilon + 2/|\mathcal{C}| + 2^{-\lambda})$$

where Q is the number of random oracle queries made by a malicious prover, and |C| is the size of the smallest challenge set in any given round of  $\Pi$ .

Furthermore, if  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  is a proof of knowledge, then so is  $\Pi^{\mathsf{VOLE}}_{\mathsf{NIZK}}$ 

# 6 Implementation and Evaluation

We have implemented the online protocol of Mac'n'Cheese with the batched multiplication approach of §4.3 in the Rust programming language. Our implementation achieves a computational security of 128 bits and a statistical security of  $\geq$  40 bits. Our implementation supports pluggable VOLE backends. The backend that we use, at present, is a "dummy" backend which (insecurely) generates random MACs by using a pre-shared seed with a PRNG.

# Transformation $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}} \to \Pi_{\mathsf{NIZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$

<span id="page-23-0"></span>Let  $\ell$  be the length of the proof string in  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ , the underlying IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .

- 1. The parties call  $\mathcal{F}_{VOLE+id}^{\ell,p,k}$ , obtaining random commitments  $[r_1],\ldots,[r_\ell]$ . Both parties also receive a random identifier  $\mathsf{id} \in \{0,1\}^{\lambda}$ .
- 2. The prover chooses the proof string  $\pi \in \mathbb{F}_{n^k}^{\ell}$  according to  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ , and computes  $d_i = r_i \pi[i]$ .
- 3. Compute the commitments  $[\boldsymbol{\pi}[i]] = [r_i] d_i$ . Let  $\boldsymbol{\tau}$  be the prover's MACs on  $\boldsymbol{\pi}$ , and  $(\alpha, \boldsymbol{\beta})$  the verifier's keys.
- 4. P defines the dummy first message  $\mathbf{a}_0 = \bot$ , and challenge  $\mathbf{e}_1 = \mathsf{H}(x \| \mathsf{id} \| \mathbf{d} \| \mathbf{a}_0)$ .
- 5. For each round i = 1, ..., t, P computes its message  $a_i$  and the next challenge

$$e_{i+1} = \mathsf{H}(\boldsymbol{a}_i \| \boldsymbol{e}_i)$$

6. For the oracle query  $(z,y) \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^{\ell} \times \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , P computes the MAC

$$\tau^Q = \langle \boldsymbol{\tau}, \boldsymbol{z} \rangle$$

- 7. P sends the proof  $(d_1, \ldots, d_\ell, \boldsymbol{a}_1, \ldots, \boldsymbol{a}_t, \tau^Q)$ .
- 8. V recomputes all the challenges  $e_i$ , then computes its query verification key

$$\beta^Q = \langle \boldsymbol{\beta}, \boldsymbol{z} \rangle$$

and checks that  $\tau^Q = \beta^Q + \alpha \cdot y$ . If the check passes, V accepts.

Figure 6: NIZK from VOLE and IP with LOVe.

Streaming. To facilitate streaming, our implementation does not view its input as an explicit circuit graph. Instead, the proof statement is lazily built-up by a series of function invocations. As a result, we get reduced memory consumption (for free) as temporary values get automatically freed when they are no longer in-scope. In order to stream a two-way disjunction, both branches of the disjunction must be interleaved (otherwise the prover would be forced to either buffer the entirety of a branch, or reveal which branch is 'true'). To achieve this interleaving, we leverage stackful coroutines to (cheaply) concurrently execute both branches.

Concurrency. Despite running a multi-round interactive protocol (without extensive use of the Fiat-Shamir transform), we are still able to achieve high-performance even over a high-latency, throughput-limited network link. We reach this result by running one thread which exclusively sends data from the prover to the verifier to Fix MACs to prover-private values. Once this thread has Fixed a batch of MACs, it submits them to one of many background threads to verify the assertions on these MACs. Each background thread has its own unique connection between the prover and the verifier, so can independently wait for a response from the other party. As a result, we can provision a large number of background threads (which will spend most of their time waiting for the network, rather than running computation) to mitigate the latency effects of running our multi-round protocol over a network. In addition, this design allows us to leverage multiple cores independent of the circuit structure.

#### 6.1 Evaluation

We benchmarked our implementation for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{40}}$  (for boolean circuits) and  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{61}-1}$  (for arithmetic circuits). Unless otherwise specified, all benchmarks were run between two machines: a laptop (2018 MacBook Pro with 8 logical cores and 16 GB of RAM) on the east coast of the U.S., and a server (40 Intel Xeon Silver 4114 cores operating at 2.20 GHz) on the west coast of the U.S. The network had an average latency of 95 ms and an average bandwidth of 31.5 Mbps. All numbers are the average of at least four runs of the given experiment.

As noted above, these results do not include the cost of VOLE. We are in the process of integrating the VOLE protocol of Weng et al. [WYKW20], but do not believe this will have a large impact on the overall running time and communication cost given that a single VOLE for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{61}-1}$  can be generated in 85 ns at a communication cost of 0.42 bits [WYKW20, Table 4], and can be largely precomputed.

As mentioned above, our implementation is multi-threaded, and in order to reduce communication latency we pipeline processing as much as possible. We use 50 threads for all of our experiments, although we note that the CPU utilization on both the prover and verifier never exceeds 226% (where the maximum possible utilization is the number of cores times 100%). We reiterate that our verifier was run on a commodity laptop, and while we use a large number of threads, this does *not* equate to extremely high CPU utilization.

**Microbenchmarks.** Using a multiplication batch size of 1 000 000, Mac'n'Cheese achieves a per multiplication cost of approximately 144 ns for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{40}}$  and 1.5  $\mu$ s for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{61}-1}$ . This equates to 6.9 million multiplications per second (mmps) for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{40}}$ , and 0.6 mmps for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{61}-1}$ . We found that the main limiter in the arithmetic case was bandwidth, and thus also ran our microbenchmarks locally (run on the Location B server), achieving a per multiplication cost of 141 ns (7.0 mmps) for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{40}}$  and 276 ns (3.6 mmps) for  $\mathbb{F}_{2^{61}-1}$ .

Comparison to QuickSilver. We briefly compare to QuickSilver [YSWW21]. Recall that QuickSilver requires only a single field element per multiplication and requires only 3 rounds (cf. Table 1), but does not support communication-optimized disjunctions. When run on localhost within an Amazon EC2 instance, QuickSilver achieves 7.6 mmps for boolean and 4.8 mmps for arithmetic when utilizing 1 thread, and 15.8 mmps for boolean and 8.9 mmps for arithmetic when utilizing 4 threads [YSWW21, Table 2]. While it is hard to make an apples-to-apples comparison here, this does suggest that QuickSilver is slightly faster, albeit at the expense of communication-optimized disjunctions. Thus, the choice of QuickSilver versus Mac'n'Cheese may come down to the characteristics of the input circuit.

**Disjunctions.** We also explored the effect our disjunction optimization has on the communication cost. We did so by comparing a proof of a boolean circuit containing 1 billion multiplication gates to using a boolean circuit containing two or more branches each containing 1 billion gates<sup>6</sup>. See Table 2 for the results.

The overall communication in all cases was essentially 124 MB: the OR proof added only an additional  $25 \log(m)$  bytes, where m denotes the number of branches. In terms of overall running

<span id="page-24-0"></span> $<sup>^6</sup>$ In more detail, the branched circuit contained one branch computing 150 000 iterations of AES (960 million multiplication gates) and the other branch computing 45 000 iterations of SHA-2 (1.002 billion multiplication gates). The non-branched circuit only ran the SHA-2 portion of the aforementioned circuit.

| Branches | Local<br>(seconds) | Verify<br>(seconds) | Comm. Increase<br>(bytes) |
|----------|--------------------|---------------------|---------------------------|
| 1        | 34                 | 139                 | —                         |
| 2        | 81                 | 307                 | +25                       |
| 4        | 163                | 568                 | +50                       |
| 8        | 327                | 1254                | +75                       |

<span id="page-25-5"></span>Table 2: Performance results for disjunctions. The "Branches" column denotes the number of branches, where each branch contains 1 billion AND gates. The "Local" column denotes the time to locally compute the circuit in-the-clear, and provides a rough lower bound of performance. The "Verify" column denotes the time to verify the ZK proof. The "Comm. Increase" column denotes the amount of communication increase from the baseline of 124 MB required in the single-branch case.

time, we see an increase with the overall size of the circuit. This is due to the fact that the prover still needs to do the entire computation, and for this particular example bandwidth is not the bottleneck. The table also reports the time required to simply evaluate the circuit locally—this presents a reasonable lower bound for Mac0n <sup>0</sup>Cheese. We find that in all cases, Mac0n <sup>0</sup>Cheese takes less than 4.08× the cost of locally evaluating the circuit.

# Acknowledgments

This material is based upon work supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) under Contract No. HR001120C0085. Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). Distribution Statement "A" (Approved for Public Release, Distribution Unlimited).

# References

- <span id="page-25-2"></span>[AHIV17] Scott Ames, Carmit Hazay, Yuval Ishai, and Muthuramakrishnan Venkitasubramaniam. Ligero: Lightweight sublinear arguments without a trusted setup. In ACM CCS 2017. ACM Press, October / November 2017.
- <span id="page-25-4"></span>[BBC+19] Dan Boneh, Elette Boyle, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Niv Gilboa, and Yuval Ishai. Zeroknowledge proofs on secret-shared data via fully linear PCPs. In CRYPTO 2019, Part III, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2019.
- <span id="page-25-3"></span>[BBHR19] Eli Ben-Sasson, Iddo Bentov, Yinon Horesh, and Michael Riabzev. Scalable zero knowledge with no trusted setup. In CRYPTO 2019, Part III, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2019.
- <span id="page-25-1"></span>[BCG+13] Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Daniel Genkin, Eran Tromer, and Madars Virza. SNARKs for C: Verifying program executions succinctly and in zero knowledge. In CRYPTO 2013, Part II, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2013.
- <span id="page-25-0"></span>[BCG+14] Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, Ian Miers, Eran Tromer, and Madars Virza. Zerocash: Decentralized anonymous payments from

- bitcoin. In 2014 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2014.
- <span id="page-26-6"></span>[BCG+19a] Elette Boyle, Geoffroy Couteau, Niv Gilboa, Yuval Ishai, Lisa Kohl, Peter Rindal, and Peter Scholl. Efficient two-round OT extension and silent non-interactive secure computation. In ACM CCS 2019, November 2019.
- <span id="page-26-12"></span>[BCG+19b] Elette Boyle, Geoffroy Couteau, Niv Gilboa, Yuval Ishai, Lisa Kohl, and Peter Scholl. Efficient pseudorandom correlation generators: Silent OT extension and more. In CRYPTO 2019, Part III. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2019.
- <span id="page-26-11"></span>[BCG+20] Elette Boyle, Geoffroy Couteau, Niv Gilboa, Yuval Ishai, Lisa Kohl, and Peter Scholl. Correlated pseudorandom functions from variable-density LPN. In 61st FOCS. IEEE Computer Society Press, November 2020.
- <span id="page-26-2"></span>[BCGI18] Elette Boyle, Geoffroy Couteau, Niv Gilboa, and Yuval Ishai. Compressing vector OLE. In ACM CCS 2018. ACM Press, October 2018.
- <span id="page-26-9"></span>[BCS16] Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, and Nicholas Spooner. Interactive oracle proofs. In TCC 2016-B, Part II. Springer, Heidelberg, October / November 2016.
- <span id="page-26-5"></span>[Bea92] Donald Beaver. Efficient multiparty protocols using circuit randomization. In CRYPTO'91, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1992.
- <span id="page-26-0"></span>[BG90] Mihir Bellare and Shafi Goldwasser. New paradigms for digital signatures and message authentication based on non-interative zero knowledge proofs. In CRYPTO'89, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1990.
- <span id="page-26-7"></span>[BMN18] Alexander R. Block, Hemanta K. Maji, and Hai H. Nguyen. Secure computation with constant communication overhead using multiplication embeddings. In IN-DOCRYPT 2018. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2018.
- <span id="page-26-10"></span>[CCH+19] Ran Canetti, Yilei Chen, Justin Holmgren, Alex Lombardi, Guy N. Rothblum, Ron D. Rothblum, and Daniel Wichs. Fiat-Shamir: from practice to theory. In 51st ACM STOC. ACM Press, June 2019.
- <span id="page-26-8"></span>[CCXY18] Ignacio Cascudo, Ronald Cramer, Chaoping Xing, and Chen Yuan. Amortized complexity of information-theoretically secure MPC revisited. In CRYPTO 2018, Part III. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2018.
- <span id="page-26-1"></span>[CD97] Ronald Cramer and Ivan Damg˚ard. Linear zero-knowledge - a note on efficient zeroknowledge proofs and arguments. In 29th ACM STOC, May 1997.
- <span id="page-26-4"></span>[CD98] Ronald Cramer and Ivan Damg˚ard. Zero-knowledge proofs for finite field arithmetic; or: Can zero-knowledge be for free? In CRYPTO'98, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1998.
- <span id="page-26-3"></span>[CDS94] Ronald Cramer, Ivan Damg˚ard, and Berry Schoenmakers. Proofs of partial knowledge and simplified design of witness hiding protocols. In CRYPTO'94, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1994.

- <span id="page-27-6"></span>[DIO21] Samuel Dittmer, Yuval Ishai, and Rafail Ostrovsky. Line-point zero knowledge and its applications. In Information-Theoretic Cryptography (ITC) 2021, 2021. [https:](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1446) [//eprint.iacr.org/2020/1446](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1446).
- <span id="page-27-11"></span>[dSGOT21] Cyprien Delpech de Saint Guilhem, Emmanuela Orsini, and Titouan Tanguy. Limbo: Efficient zero-knowledge MPCitH-based arguments. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/215, 2021.
- <span id="page-27-4"></span>[FNO15] Tore Kasper Frederiksen, Jesper Buus Nielsen, and Claudio Orlandi. Privacy-free garbled circuits with applications to efficient zero-knowledge. In EUROCRYPT 2015, Part II, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, April 2015.
- <span id="page-27-12"></span>[FS87] Amos Fiat and Adi Shamir. How to prove yourself: Practical solutions to identification and signature problems. In CRYPTO'86, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1987.
- <span id="page-27-0"></span>[GMW87] Oded Goldreich, Silvio Micali, and Avi Wigderson. How to play any mental game or A completeness theorem for protocols with honest majority. In 19th ACM STOC. ACM Press, May 1987.
- <span id="page-27-10"></span>[HK20a] David Heath and Vladimir Kolesnikov. Stacked garbling - garbled circuit proportional to longest execution path. In CRYPTO 2020, Part II, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2020.
- <span id="page-27-2"></span>[HK20b] David Heath and Vladimir Kolesnikov. Stacked garbling for disjunctive zero-knowledge proofs. In EUROCRYPT 2020, Part III, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2020.
- <span id="page-27-3"></span>[JKO13] Marek Jawurek, Florian Kerschbaum, and Claudio Orlandi. Zero-knowledge using garbled circuits: how to prove non-algebraic statements efficiently. In ACM CCS 2013. ACM Press, November 2013.
- <span id="page-27-8"></span>[Kol18] Vladimir Kolesnikov. Free IF: How to omit inactive branches and implement Suniversal garbled circuit (almost) for free. In ASIACRYPT 2018, Part III, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2018.
- <span id="page-27-9"></span>[KOS16] Marcel Keller, Emmanuela Orsini, and Peter Scholl. MASCOT: Faster malicious arithmetic secure computation with oblivious transfer. In ACM CCS 2016. ACM Press, October 2016.
- <span id="page-27-1"></span>[WYKW20] Chenkai Weng, Kang Yang, Jonathan Katz, and Xiao Wang. Wolverine: Fast, scalable, and communication-efficient zero-knowledge proofs for boolean and arithmetic circuits. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/925, 2020. [https://eprint.iacr.](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/925) [org/2020/925](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/925).
- <span id="page-27-7"></span>[YSWW21] Kang Yang, Pratik Sarkar, Chenkai Weng, and Xiao Wang. Quicksilver: Efficient and affordable zero-knowledge proofs for circuits and polynomials over any field. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/076, 2021.
- <span id="page-27-5"></span>[ZRE15] Samee Zahur, Mike Rosulek, and David Evans. Two halves make a whole - reducing data transfer in garbled circuits using half gates. In EUROCRYPT 2015, Part II, LNCS. Springer, Heidelberg, April 2015.

# <span id="page-28-0"></span>A Definition for Honest-verifier Zero-knowledge Proofs of Knowledge

We recap the (standard) definitions for honest-verifier zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge.

**Definition 8.** An interactive protocol  $\Pi$  between two interactive probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT, in the security parameter) Turing machines P, V is called an honest-verifier zero-knowledge interactive proof (HVZK proof) for a relation R with soundness error  $\epsilon$  if it satisfies the following three properties:

**Completeness:** For all  $(x, w) \in \mathcal{R}$  the interaction between P(x, w) and V(x) is accepting, i.e. V outputs 1.

**Soundness:** For all  $x \notin L(\mathcal{R})$  and for all PPT algorithms  $P^*$ , any interaction of  $P^*$  with V(x) is accepting with probability at most  $\epsilon$ .

**Honest-Verifier Zero-Knowledge:** There exists a PPT algorithm S such that for any  $(x, w) \in \mathcal{R}$  the output of S(x) is indistinguishable from  $View_V[P(x, w) \leftrightarrow V(x)]$  for any honest V.

If S(x) and  $View_V[P(x, w) \leftrightarrow V(x)]$  have the identical distribution then the proof is called perfectly zero-knowledge. If the statistical distance between both distributions is negligible in the security parameter then it is called statistical zero-knowledge. If both distributions are indistinguishable to any PPT algorithm then it is called computational zero-knowledge.

**Definition 9** (HVZK Proof of Knowledge). An HVZK interactive proof  $\Pi$  is a proof of knowledge if for any prover  $P^*$  that makes the verifier accept with probability  $> \epsilon$  for a statement x there exists a PPT extractor E that, using black-box access to  $P^*$ , outputs a witness w such that  $(x, w) \in \mathcal{R}$ .

## <span id="page-28-1"></span>B Proof of Theorem 1

**Theorem** (Theorem 1, restated). Suppose  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  is a public-coin IP-LOVe for relation  $\mathcal{R}$ , satisfying completeness, soudness error  $\epsilon$  and honest-verifier zero-knowledge. Then,  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$  is an honest-verifier zero-knowledge proof for relation  $\mathcal{R}$ , with soundness error  $\epsilon + p^{-k}$ . Furthermore, if  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  is a proof of knowledge, then so is  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$ .

*Proof.* Completeness follows immediately from the completeness of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ , and the linear properties of the VOLE-based commitments. For soundness, consider a cheating prover  $\mathsf{P}^*$  who manages to prove an incorrect statement in  $\Pi^{\mathsf{VOLE}}_{\mathsf{ZK}}$  with probability  $\epsilon^*$ . We can turn  $\mathsf{P}^*$  into an adversary for the soundness of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ . The only difference in the two executions, is that in  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  there is no possibility to cheat during the query phase, whereas in  $\Pi^{\mathsf{VOLE}}_{\mathsf{ZK}}$ , passing an incorrect query can happen by guessing the MAC key, with probability  $p^{-k}$ . We therefore have,

$$|\Pr[\mathsf{V} \text{ outputs } 1 \text{ in } \Pi_{\mathsf{ZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}] - \Pr[\mathsf{V} \text{ outputs } 1 \text{ in } \Pi_{\mathsf{CP}}^{\mathsf{LOVe}}]| \leq p^{-k}.$$

Since  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  has soundness error  $\epsilon$ , we conclude that  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$  has soundness error at most  $\epsilon + p^{-k}$ . For the zero-knowledge property, the simulator picks  $d_i$  uniformly at random, and then runs the HVZK simulator S for  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ . Since  $d_i = r[i] - \pi[i]$ , where r[i] is uniform in  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  for an honest prover, indistinguishability of the simulation follows from that of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ . Finally, for the proof of knowledge property, observe that in  $\Pi_{\mathsf{ZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$ , the extractor can simulate  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{VOLE}}$ , and so extract all of the random values r. This corresponds to knowing the entire proof string  $\pi$  in the underlying IP with LOVe, so we can run the same extraction algorithm as for  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ .

## <span id="page-29-0"></span>C Proof of Lemma 1

*Proof.* We first prove honest-verifier zero-knowledge by constructing a simulator S as required. S on input the statement x simulates the interaction in  $\Pi$  by sending random field elements to V, for every message sent by P. Finally, for each oracle query (z, y) made by V, S reports that the query succeeds. It is easy to see that S is perfectly indistinguishable from  $View_V[P(x, w) \leftrightarrow V(x)]$  for an honest V, because (1) the prover's messages are uniformly random in both executions, and (2) since  $\Pi$  is complete, all oracle queries would succeed in an honest execution, hence, S simulates them faithfully.

We next argue that for m protocols  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$ , where each  $\Pi_i$  is proving some relation  $\mathcal{R}_i$ , the collection  $(\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m)$  is equisimulatable. We first need to give an algorithm  $\mathcal{CP}$ , which on input an index i, round number h and prover message  $\mathbf{a}_h$  from an execution of  $\Pi_i$ , outputs the 'combined prover' message  $\mathbf{a}'$ ; our algorithm simply extends  $\mathbf{a}_h$  to the maximum length of the prover's round-h message in any  $\{\Pi_i\}_i$ , by padding with random field elements.

Since the prover's messages are all uniformly random, it is clear that for any two indices i, i', the output of  $\mathcal{CP}$  on a message  $\mathbf{a}_h$  from  $\Pi_i$  is identically distributed to its output given  $\mathbf{a}_h$  from  $\Pi_{i'}$ , which implies the second property of Definition 5.

Next, we need to specify a decoding algorithm dec for the verifier, which allows it to extract the correct message  $\mathbf{a}_h$  from the  $\mathcal{CP}$  output, given the index i. Since the length of  $\mathbf{a}_h$  in  $\Pi_i$  is fixed, dec simply truncates its input to the correct length, which clearly gives the correct result.

# D More Details on Stacking

In this section we give the proof of our first stacking construction, and then describe the details for how to perform *threshold stacking*, and finally give a full construction and proof for the *recursive stacking* approach.

#### <span id="page-29-1"></span>D.1 Proof of Theorem 2

*Proof.* We show that Definition 2, Definition 3 and Definition 4 are fulfilled.

Completeness. Assume that, as stated in the protocol,  $(x_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{w}_{i^*}) \in \mathcal{R}_{i^*}$ . This means that the protocol will indeed run for t rounds without abort, as P runs  $\Pi_{i^*}$  and a simulated continuation in Step 2, which are both well-defined, and because V runs a t-round protocol that is agnostic of the messages received from P until this point. For the queries, we observe that if  $\boldsymbol{\pi}, f_i, d_i, \boldsymbol{z}_i, y_i, \beta_i$  are chosen as in the protocol, then for  $i \neq i^*$  we have

$$\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_i || \beta_i \rangle = \langle \boldsymbol{\pi}', \boldsymbol{z}_i \rangle + \langle r_1 \cdots r_m, \beta_i \rangle = \langle \boldsymbol{\pi}', \boldsymbol{z}_i \rangle + f_i r_i$$

$$= \langle \boldsymbol{\pi}', \boldsymbol{z}_i \rangle + f_i (d_i - (\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}', \boldsymbol{z}_i \rangle - y_i) / f_i)$$

$$= y_i + f_i d_i$$

where the penultimate step follows from the definition of  $d_i$ . For the  $i^*$ -th instance, we have

$$\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_{i^*} || \beta_{i^*} \rangle = y_{i^*} + f_{i^*} r_{i^*} = y_{i^*} + f_{i^*} d_{i^*}.$$

The round, oracle, query and message complexity can be obtained from the definition of the protocol.

<u>Soundness.</u> For the sake of notation we separate the messages sent in  $\Pi_{0R}$  into two phases. The messages sent in Step 2 are considered as *Phase 1* while those exchanged in Step 3 or thereafter are considered *Phase 2*.

Consider a setting where we would perform the regular IP-LOVe-queries for each of the m statements after Phase 1. This would mean that we ran  $\Pi_{0R}$  without the OR-proof in the end. If we look at all messages sent during Phase 1, then if none of the m statements are true, we have that for each  $i \in [m]$  at least one verification query must fail, except with probability  $\sum_{i \in [m]} \epsilon_i$ . This can be seen as follows: in the worst case, an  $\epsilon_1$ -fraction of all Phase 1 challenges by V will lead to all oracle queries related to the IP-LOVe for  $x_1$  being true, as  $\Pi_1$  has soundness error  $\epsilon_1$ . The same can be said about all other m-1 proofs, and in the worst case the transcripts on which they successfully finish are distinct. Hence if all statements are false, we know that when entering Phase 2, with probability at least  $1 - \sum_{i \in [m]} \epsilon_i$ , all oracle queries in the sub-protocols must be false, that is, for all  $i \in [m]$ ,  $\langle \pi|_{\ell_i}, z_i \rangle \neq y_i$ .

In this case, we claim that there is only one choice of the verifier's challenge  $f \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  that will accept.

Suppose, for a contradiction, that there exist two accepting transcripts of messages that keep all messages of Phase 1 and 2 fixed, except for f, and where  $\forall i \in [m] : \langle \pi, z_i \rangle = y_i + \Delta_i$  for some non-zero  $\Delta_i$  by assumption. The two accepting transcripts have  $f, \hat{f}$  as messages by V. Furthermore, this means there exists an index i with two different  $f_i, \hat{f}_i$ , since the  $f_i$  form shares of f.

It must hold that  $\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_i || \beta_i \rangle = y_i + f_i d_i$  and  $\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_i || \hat{\beta}_i \rangle = y_i + \hat{f}_i d_i$ .  $\beta_i$  is by definition 0 everywhere except at one point, where it is  $f_i$  (and similarly  $\hat{\beta}_i$ ). So we can write these two equalities as  $y_i + \Delta_i + r_i f_i = y_i + f_i d_i$  and  $y_i + \Delta_i + r_i \hat{f}_i = y_i + \hat{f}_i d_i$ , where  $r_i$  is the value from  $\boldsymbol{\pi}$  that both  $\beta_i$ ,  $\hat{\beta}_i$  select. Therefore,  $\Delta_i = f_i(d_i - r_i) = \hat{f}_i(d_i - r_i)$ . Since  $f_i \neq \hat{f}_i$  this can only be fulfilled if  $d_i = r_i$ . However, from the fact that the oracle query succeeds, this would imply  $\Delta_i = 0$ , contradicting the assumption.

A cheating P would, by the argument above, have to hit the  $\sum \epsilon_i$ -fraction of Phase 1-challenges that make the queries accept, or otherwise can only answer one choice of  $f \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ . By a union bound, the cheating probability is at most  $\sum_{i \in [m]} \epsilon_i + 1/p^k$ .

Proof of Knowledge. By the previous argument on the soundness, if the success probability of P is  $\sum_{i\in[m]} \epsilon_i + 1/p^k$ , then for at least one of the m statements, let's say the  $i^*$ th, the IP-LOVe queries for  $x_{i^*}$  are all accepting with probability  $> \epsilon_{i^*}$ . Let the accepting proof string be  $\pi$ , then since  $\Pi_{i^*}$  is a Proof of Knowledge, there exists an extractor E which on input  $\pi|_{\ell_{i^*}}$  must therefore output  $(x_i, \mathbf{w}_i) \in \mathcal{R}_{i^*}$ . This is because by the construction of  $\Pi_{0R}$ , all queries of  $\Pi_{i^*}$  are made to the first  $\ell_{i^*}$  elements of  $\pi$ .

Honest-Verifier Zero-Knowledge. We now construct a simulator S for the protocol  $\Pi_{0R}$  that will, on input  $x_1, \ldots, x_m$ , output a transcript  $\tau$  that is perfectly indistinguishable from a real transcript generated by interacting with an honest V.

Pick a protocol instance  $\Pi_j$  at random, run its HVZK simulator  $S_j$  and generate all  $c_h$  using  $\mathcal{CP}$  as well as  $\Pi_j$ . This will be perfectly indistinguishable from any transcript of  $\Pi_i$  with  $i \neq j$  by the HVZK property of  $\Pi_i$  and the definition of Equisimulatability.

Now fix random values  $f_1, \ldots, f_m$  and choose all  $d_i$  uniformly at random. Output  $d_i, f_i, f = \sum_{i \in [m]} f_i$ . By definition, f is uniformly random and all query responses are accepting. All  $f_i$  are uniformly random, conditioned on summing up to f as in the protocol. All  $d_i$  are uniformly random, as in  $\Pi_{0R}$  where they are computed from the uniformly random  $r_i$ .

<u>Public Coin.</u> All challenges sent by V are chosen as required in Definition 4: during the t rounds, they are chosen as random strings of sufficient length. The challenge f is also chosen uniformly at random. For each of the queries  $(z_i||\beta_i, y_i + f_i d_i)$  the values  $z_i$  and  $y_i$  are chosen deterministically by using Q and applying a deterministic transformation.  $\beta_i$  are determined by  $f_1, \ldots, f_m$  that are sent by P.

### <span id="page-31-0"></span>D.2 Threshold Stacking

We now describe how to construct a protocol for a higher threshold of true statements. Let  $S \subset [m]$  be the subset of branches that P has a witness for and where |S| = r. We make the following modifications to  $\Pi_{0R}$ :

1. In the original protocol, P in Step 1 creates one string  $\pi$  that is getting sent to the oracle for queries by V. This does not work in case of a general threshold r. One solution would be to concatenate m strings  $\pi_1, \ldots, \pi_m$  and use the respective substring  $\pi_i$  for the respective oracle queries of  $\Pi_i$ , but this will increase the oracle length by a factor of m. As the oracle length has an impact on practical efficiency (see §2.2), we want to avoid this and will instead use a solution where  $\pi$  essentially scales linearly with r.

We can write each  $\pi_i$  as having length  $\ell = \max_{i \in [m]} \ell_i$  by padding it with 0s. The honest P will only have  $\pi_i, i \in S$  available. We can, for each of the  $\ell$  elements of each  $\pi_i$ , define a polynomial  $\Pi_{j \in [\ell]}$  of degree r-1 over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  such that  $\Pi_j(i) = \pi_i[j]$  for  $i \in S$ . Then, we can place the r coefficients of each  $\Pi_j$  in  $\pi$ , which therefore becomes  $\pi = \Pi_1 | \dots | \Pi_\ell | r_1, \dots, r_m$ . Observe that, as before  $\pi$  is defined over  $\mathbb{F}_p$ .

This requires us to modify how queries to the oracle will be made, but the change is simple. For each query  $\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}_i, \overline{\boldsymbol{z}}_i \rangle =_? y_i$  we instead create the query  $\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \tilde{\boldsymbol{z}}_i \rangle =_? y_i$  where  $\tilde{\boldsymbol{z}}_i \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}^{r\ell}$ . We will let the first r elements of  $\tilde{\boldsymbol{z}}_i$  consist of  $[\overline{\boldsymbol{z}}_i[1], i \cdot \overline{\boldsymbol{z}}_i[1], \dots, i^{r-1}\overline{\boldsymbol{z}}_i[1]]$  i.e. of the first element of  $\overline{\boldsymbol{z}}_i$  multiplied with powers of i. Then, the next r elements will consist of  $\overline{\boldsymbol{z}}_i[2]$  multiplied with the same pattern of powers of i etc. The reason for this is that the powers of i will later implicitly compute  $\Pi_j(i)$  and therefore, for the true branches, will reconstruct  $\boldsymbol{\pi}_i[j]$ , such that the same inner product as in a real protocol will be computed.

2. In Step 2, we need to communicate a different message  $a_{h,i}$  for each  $i \in [m]$ . This is because we want to execute multiple branches honestly but do not want to reveal which it is that we use. Our solution is as follows: For each round  $h \in [t]$  where P sends messages we let  $A_h(X)$  be the polynomial of degree r-1 such that  $\forall s \in S : A_h(s) = a_h^s$ . That means that we create a polynomial that agrees with the correct messages for all valid branches. V will later use the interpolation of each  $A_h(X)$  at all  $i \in [m]$  to determine the queries that it will issue<sup>7</sup>. This easily also works when the messages  $a_h$  are vectors.

<span id="page-31-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup>For this to work the Equisimulatability property of the individual protocols is not enough. It can be made to work though as messages from P have a pseudorandom distribution over  $\mathbb{F}_p$ .

3. One can see Step 3 of  $\Pi_{0R}$  as P choosing m-1 secret shares, where the choice of f later determines the secret and thus the last share. Here, knowing these shares in advance allows P to "lie" in m-1 proof instances. For the threshold setting, we can instead let P choose m-r shares  $f_i, i \notin S$  in Step 3 and compute the  $d_i$ -values accordingly (use e.g. Shamir's Secret Sharing). Later in Step 4 V sends r challenges  $f^{(1)}, \ldots, f^{(r)}$ . P will compute the remaining r shares of  $f_i, i \in S$  such that the  $f_1, \ldots, f_m$  form a packed secret sharing where  $f^{(1)}, \ldots, f^{(r)}$  are the secrets. It then sends all these shares to V who checks that  $f_1, \ldots, f_m$  form a correct secret-sharing of the secrets with threshold m-r.

#### <span id="page-32-0"></span>D.3 Formalizing Recursive Stacking

Constructing the basic protocol. We construct the base protocol  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  that shows the relation  $\mathcal{R}_{OR}$  for two branches in Figure 7. The protocol  $\Pi_{A-OR}$ , on a high level, works as follows:

- 1. The prover adds two random  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  elements u, v to the string  $\pi$ . These will be used to prove the multiplicative relation used to verify the proof.
- 2. The evaluation of both branches is done in parallel, with the combined prover algorithm, as in  $\Pi_{0R}$ .
- 3. The prover and verifier both locally compute the oracle query inputs that would be made for the base protocols  $\Pi_1, \Pi_2$ . The prover computes the query results  $\mu_1, \mu_2$ , of which one is zero (corresponding to the true branch).
- 4. P commits to the product  $u\mu_2$ , by sending it masked with v. This will be used to verify that  $\mu_1\mu_2=0$ .
- 5. V responds with a random challenge f, after which P opens  $\varepsilon = f\mu_1 u$ .
- 6. Finally, V wants to verify two statements: firstly, that  $\varepsilon$  was sent correctly, based on the values  $\mu_1, u$ , which can be derived from the proof string; and secondly, that  $\varepsilon \mu_2 + u \mu_2 = 0$ , since this will guarantee that  $\mu_1 \mu_2 = 0$ .

Instead of performing two oracle queries to verify these, V chooses another random challenge f', which is used to combine these two queries into one query, which concludes the protocol.

The query that V does is deterministic given the transcript. Furthermore, the additional messages that are sent by both P and V appear uniformly random. This will later allow us to recursively construct a proof for more than 2 branches.

<span id="page-32-1"></span>**Theorem 6.** Let  $\Pi_1, \Pi_2$  be protocols such that each  $\Pi_i$  is a  $t_i$ -round, 1-query equisimulatable Public Coin IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  for relation  $\mathcal{R}_i$  with oracle length  $\ell_i$ , message complexity  $\alpha_i$  elements of  $\mathbb{F}_p$  and soundness error  $\epsilon_i$ .

Then the protocol  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  in Figure 7 is a Public Coin IP with LOVe for the relation  $\mathcal{R}_{OR}$  over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ , with:

- 1. round complexity  $3 + \max\{t_1, t_2\}$ ;
- 2. oracle length  $2 + \max\{\ell_1, \ell_2\}$ ;
- 3. query complexity 1;

#### Protocol $\Pi_{A-OR}$

<span id="page-33-0"></span>Let  $\Pi_1, \Pi_2$  be protocols such that each  $\Pi_i$  is  $t_i$ -round, 1-query equisimulatable public coin IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  for relation  $\mathcal{R}_i$  with oracle length  $\ell_i$ .

Both P and V have inputs  $x_1, x_2$  where  $x_i \in L(\mathcal{R}_i)$ . P additionally has input  $\boldsymbol{w}_{i^*}$  for (at least) one  $i^* \in [2]$  such that  $(x_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{w}_{i^*}) \in \mathcal{R}_{i^*}$ . We define  $\ell := \max\{\ell_1, \ell_2\}$ , and  $t := \max\{t_1, t_2\}$ .

<span id="page-33-1"></span>1. P initially simulates  $\Pi_{i^*}$  on input  $(x_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{w}_{i^*})$  to obtain the string  $\boldsymbol{\pi}_{i^*}$  and the state  $s_0^{\mathsf{P}}$ . It then sets

$$\boldsymbol{\pi} = \boldsymbol{\pi}_{i^*} \| \underbrace{0 \cdots 0}_{\ell - \ell_{i^*} \text{ times}} \| \boldsymbol{u}, \boldsymbol{v}$$

where u, v are chosen uniformly at random in  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .

- <span id="page-33-3"></span>2. Define  $s_0^{\mathsf{P}} := (x_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{w}_{i^*}), s_{t_{i^*}}^{\mathsf{P}} := \bot$ . For  $h \in [t]$ ,  $\mathsf{P}$  and  $\mathsf{V}$  do the following:
  - (a) Let  $r_h^{\mathsf{V},i}$  be the length of the challenge that  $\mathsf{V}$  would send for protocol  $\Pi_i$  in round h.  $\mathsf{V}$  sets  $r_h = \max\{r_{h,1}^{\mathsf{V}}, r_{h,2}^{\mathsf{V}}\}$ , samples  $e_h \leftarrow \mathbb{F}_p^{r_h}$  uniformly at random and then sends it to  $\mathsf{P}$ .
  - (b) P sets  $(\boldsymbol{a}_h, s_h^{\mathsf{P}}) \leftarrow \Pi_{i^*}(s_{h-1}^{\mathsf{P}}, \boldsymbol{e}_h)$  where P only uses the first  $r_{h, i^*}^{\mathsf{P}}$  elements of  $\boldsymbol{e}_h$  as required by  $\Pi_{i^*}$ . It computes  $\boldsymbol{c}_h \leftarrow \mathcal{CP}(\hat{x}, h, i^*, \boldsymbol{a}_h)$  and sends  $\boldsymbol{c}_h$  to V.
- <span id="page-33-2"></span>3. For  $i \in \{1, 2\}$ , P and V both compute

$$(\overline{z}_i, y_i) \leftarrow \mathcal{Q}(x_i, \{e_h, \operatorname{dec}(\hat{x}, h, i, c_h)\}_{h \in [t_i]}).$$

Let 
$$z_i := \overline{z}_i | \underbrace{0 \cdots 0}_{\ell - \ell_i \text{ times}}$$
 //  $x_i \text{ true} \Rightarrow \langle \pi, z_i \rangle = y_i$ 

Then, P computes  $\mu_1 = \langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_1 \rangle - y_1$  and  $\mu_2 = \langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_2 \rangle - y_2$ , in  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .

- <span id="page-33-4"></span>4. P sends  $\delta = u\mu_2 - v \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  to V. (This can be sent in parallel with P's previous message)
- 5. V sends a random challenge  $f \in \mathbb{F}_{n^k}$ .
- <span id="page-33-5"></span>6. P sends back  $\varepsilon = f\mu_1 - u$ .
- 7. V sends a second challenge  $f' \in \mathbb{F}_{n^k}$ .
- 8. V makes the oracle query

$$((fz_1 + f'\varepsilon z_2) || -1, f'), f \cdot y_1 + \varepsilon + f' \cdot (\varepsilon y_2 - \delta))$$

// Checks that  $f\mu_1 - u = \varepsilon$  and  $\varepsilon\mu_2 + (\delta + v) = 0$  (combined into one query by randomizing with f')

9. V accepts if the query is true, otherwise it rejects.

Figure 7: The protocol  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  for an OR-statement.

- 4. message complexity  $4k + \max\{\alpha_i\}$  elements of  $\mathbb{F}_p$ ; and
- 5. soundness error  $\epsilon_1 + \epsilon_2 + 2p^{-k}$ .

If  $\Pi_1, \Pi_2$  are both proofs of knowledge, then so is  $\Pi_{A-OR}$ .

Note that we can choose the extension field parameter k so that  $p^k$  is large enough to achieve

negligible soundness in one run, with only a small increase in message complexity (independent of αi).

Proof. Completeness. If (x<sup>i</sup> <sup>∗</sup> , w<sup>i</sup> <sup>∗</sup> ) ∈ R<sup>i</sup> <sup>∗</sup> and P has w<sup>i</sup> <sup>∗</sup> then Steps [1-](#page-33-1)[3](#page-33-2) will run by the same argument as in the completeness proof for ΠOR. All that remains to show is that the oracle query will be accepting.

$$\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, (f\boldsymbol{z}_1 + f'\varepsilon\boldsymbol{z}_2) \| -1, f' \rangle = f \cdot \langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_1 \rangle - u + f'\varepsilon \cdot \langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{z}_2 \rangle + f'v$$
  
=  $f \cdot (\mu_1 + y_1) - u + f'\varepsilon \cdot (\mu_2 + y_2) + f'v$  (2)

<span id="page-34-1"></span><span id="page-34-0"></span>
$$= f \cdot y_1 + \varepsilon + f' \cdot (\varepsilon y_2 + \varepsilon \mu_2 + u\mu_2 - \delta) \tag{3}$$

<span id="page-34-3"></span><span id="page-34-2"></span>
$$= f \cdot y_1 + \varepsilon + f' \cdot (\varepsilon y_2 + (f\mu_1 - u)\mu_2 + u\mu_2 - \delta) \tag{4}$$

$$= f \cdot y_1 + \varepsilon + f' \cdot (\varepsilon y_2 - \delta) \tag{5}$$

where [2](#page-34-0) follows from the definitions of µ1, µ2, [3](#page-34-1) and [4](#page-34-2) use the facts that v = uµ2−δ and ε = fµ1−u, and [5](#page-34-3) relies on µ1µ<sup>2</sup> = 0 when w<sup>i</sup> <sup>∗</sup> is a valid witness (by the completeness of Π1, Π2). Thus, the proof accepts for an honest prover.

Round complexity, oracle length, query complexity and message complexity follow from an inspection of the actual protocol definition.

Soundness. Suppose that a cheating prover completes the protocol when it does not know a witness for either statement. By assumption on Π1, Π2, P could only make the oracle queries (z1, y1) and (z2, y2) be correct with probability ≤ <sup>1</sup> + <sup>2</sup> by a union bound.

Thus, assume that both of these queries would not be successful, which means that µ1, µ<sup>2</sup> are both non-zero, hence µ1µ<sup>2</sup> = ∆ for some ∆ 6= 0. (Where we define µ<sup>i</sup> := hπ, zii − y<sup>i</sup> , as in the protocol.) Further, define ∆<sup>ε</sup> := ε − (fµ<sup>1</sup> − u), the error in the value of ε sent by the malicious P.

Suppose that for a successful transcript, the query in ΠA−OR passes. From its definition, we have

$$\langle \boldsymbol{\pi}, (f\boldsymbol{z}_1 + f'\varepsilon\boldsymbol{z}_2) \| -1, f' \rangle = f \cdot y_1 + \varepsilon + f' \cdot (\varepsilon y_2 - \delta)$$

Collecting (z<sup>i</sup> , yi) terms on the left, and subbing in µ<sup>i</sup> = hπ, zii − y<sup>i</sup> gives

$$f\mu_1 + f'\varepsilon\mu_2 - u + f'v = \varepsilon - f'\delta$$

Now using the fact that ε − (fµ<sup>1</sup> − u) = ∆ε, the above holds if and only if

$$f'(\varepsilon\mu_2 + v + \delta) = \Delta_{\varepsilon}$$

If ∆<sup>ε</sup> 6= 0, then there is only a single value of f 0 that makes the above hold, hence, the check passes with probability p −k , since all other values were fixed before f <sup>0</sup> was chosen.

On the other hand, if ∆<sup>ε</sup> = 0, then

$$f' \cdot (f\mu_1\mu_2 + u\mu_2 + v + \delta) = 0$$

and the above holds either if f' = 0, or if

$$f\Delta + u\mu_2 + v + \delta = 0$$

Since  $\Delta \neq 0$ , and  $(u, \mu_2, v, \delta)$  were each fixed before sampling f, each of these happens with probability  $p^{-k}$ . Hence, summing up all the possible failure events, we obtain a soundness error of  $\epsilon_1 + \epsilon_2 + 2p^{-k}$ .

Proof of Knowledge. This follows according to the same lines as in the proof of Theorem 2.

#### Honest-Verifier Zero-Knowledge.

We now construct a simulator S for the protocol  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  that will, on input  $x_1, x_2$ , output a transcript  $\tau$  that is perfectly indistinguishable from a transcript generated by interaction with an honest V.

Pick a protocol instance  $\Pi_i$  at random, run its HVZK simulator  $\mathcal{S}_i$  and generate all  $\mathbf{c}_h$  using  $\mathcal{CP}$ . This will be perfectly indistinguishable from any transcript of  $\Pi_j$  with  $i \neq j$  by the HVZK property of  $\Pi_i$  and the definition of Equisimulatability. Choose uniformly random f, f' as in the real protocol, and also uniform values  $\delta, \varepsilon$  to simulate the prover's messages. These are indistinguishable from the  $\delta, \varepsilon$  from  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  where they are computed by subtracting a uniformly random u or v from a secret value.

Public Coin. The argument is the same as for  $\Pi_{OR}$ .

**Recursing.** We now show how to recursively apply the construction of  $\Pi_{A-OR}$ , which is possible if all the initial protocols are equisimulatable.

<span id="page-35-0"></span>**Lemma 2.** Let  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_{2m}$  be Public Coin IPs with LOVe with the same properties as in Theorem 6. Furthermore, assume that all 2m are equisimulatable. Denote with  $\Pi'_i$  the protocol obtained by applying  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  to  $\Pi_{2i-1}, \Pi_{2i}$ . Then all  $\Pi'_1, \ldots, \Pi'_m$  are also equisimulatable.

*Proof.* By assumption, there already exists an algorithm  $\mathcal{CP}$  which takes care of simulating all the messages that each  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  would perform in Step 2. All that remains to show is that also the messages sent in Steps 4–6 of each instance of  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  can be packed into one vector c. This follows trivially: by the proof of the zero-knowledge property of  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  we know that all  $\varepsilon_i$ ,  $\delta_i$  for each  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  are uniformly random. Assuming each  $\Pi'_i$  uses the same extension field parameter k, then the  $\mathcal{CP}$  algorithm simply outputs the messages  $\varepsilon$ ,  $\delta$  which the prover would send ordinarily.

This now allows us to construct a protocol for  $\mathcal{R}_{0R}$  by recursively applying Theorem 6 and Lemma 2. For simplicity we assume that m is a power of 2.

Corollary 1. Let  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$  be protocols such that each  $\Pi_i$  is a  $t_i$ -round, 1-query equisimulatable Public Coin IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  for relation  $\mathcal{R}_i$  with oracle length  $\ell_i$ , message complexity  $\alpha_i$   $\mathbb{F}_p$  elements and soundness error  $\epsilon_i$ .

Then there exists a protocol  $\Pi_{R-OR}$  that is a Public Coin IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  for the relation  $\mathcal{R}_{OR}$  with

- 1. round complexity  $3 \cdot \log_2(m) + \max_{i \in [m]} \{t_i\};$
- 2. oracle length  $2 \cdot \log_2(m) + \max_{i \in [m]} \{\ell_i\};$

- 3. query complexity 1;
- 4. message complexity  $4k \log_2(m) + \max\{\alpha_i\} \mathbb{F}_p$  elements; and
- 5. soundness error  $\sum_{i \in [m]} \epsilon_i + (m-1) \cdot 2p^{-k}$ .

If  $\Pi_1, \ldots, \Pi_m$  are all proofs of knowledge, then so is  $\Pi_{R-OR}$ .

*Proof.* The idea for  $\Pi_{R-0R}$  is straightforward. First, we apply Lemma 2 to go from m protocols to m/2 IPs with LOVe. Since P has  $(x_{i^*}, \boldsymbol{w}_{i^*}) \in \mathcal{R}_{i^*}$  it will first compute  $\boldsymbol{\pi}_{i^*}$  as in  $\Pi_{i^*}$ , pad it with 0s as in  $\Pi_{0R}$  and then append  $\log_2(m)$  random pairs  $u_j, v_j \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ . Note that this is  $\log_2(m)$  times as many pairs as in  $\Pi_{A-0R}$ , which we need for the recursion.

As before, we simulate the messages using the true branch and in the end compute the queries that would occur in any of the m branches from the messages that V obtains based on each  $\Pi_i$ . We then use the  $u_j, v_j$  pair for j=1 to compute the  $\delta, \varepsilon$  messages based on the instance of  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  where the true branch  $\Pi_{i^*}$  is a part of (while also receiving a challenge from V). Then, for each of the overall m/2 instances of  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  we compute the queries which V would make. Observe that we do not actually make these now. In each branch of  $\Pi_{A-OR}$ , the adversary could have lied only with probability  $\epsilon_{2i-1} + \epsilon_{2i} + 2p^{-k}$  by Theorem 6.

Next, as the remaining m/2 protocols are equisimulatable by Lemma 2, applying  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  to combine these will lead to m/4 equisimulatable protocols. We again combine the m/2 equisimulatable public coin IPs with LOVe using Theorem 6, now using the random  $(u_j, v_j)$  pair in  $\pi$  for j=2. Note that we are now operating at the second layer of the tree, where we are using the  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  instances from the first layer as input. Since each  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  performs only 1 query, it is also suitable for input to another  $\Pi_{A-OR}$  instance.

P computes the  $\delta_j$ ,  $\varepsilon_j$ -values necessary for the proofs done in the second layer of  $\Pi_{A-0R}$  instances on the inner products of the respective queries that would have been made in the end of the first layer of  $\Pi_{A-0R}$  instances as before. The values  $\delta_j$ ,  $\varepsilon_j$  that we send in the second layer are computed based on the one of the m/4 instances of  $\Pi_{A-0R}$  corresponding to the true statement with  $\Pi_{i^*}$ . The soundness error in this layer is by the definition of  $\Pi_{A-0R}$ , the sum of the soundness error on either branch of the input protocol plus an additional error term  $2p^{-k}$ .

Continuing this process  $\log_2(m)$  times, until we end up with a single output, then leads to the claimed properties. The proof of knowledge property follows accordingly.

In terms of practical complexity, our proof loses a factor m in soundness, which is expected. The number of rounds blows up to be logarithmic, however, this can be avoided using Fiat-Shamir (which also removes  $2k \log m$  elements from the message complexity).

# E Proofs from § 4

#### <span id="page-36-0"></span>E.1 Proof of Theorem 3

**Theorem** (Theorem 3, restated). Let  $\mathcal{R}$  be a relation that can be represented by an arithmetic circuit C over  $\mathbb{F}_p$  such that  $\mathcal{R}(x, \mathbf{w}) = 1 \Leftrightarrow C(\mathbf{w}) = 0$ . Then the above protocol is a C&P IP with LOVe over  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  for  $\mathcal{R}$ , such that (1) completeness holds, (2) soundness holds with soundness error  $p^{-k}$ , (3) all inputs to Send are perfectly indistinguishable from random, and (4) the protocol is a proof of knowledge.

*Proof.* Completeness is immediate. For soundness, consider a malicious prover  $\mathsf{P}^*$ , who at the beginning of the protocol chooses all of the randomness used in Random instructions. In the remainder of the protocol,  $\mathsf{P}^*$  is only able to cheat in the Mult operation (since Reveal guarantees that  $\varepsilon_i$  is sent correctly, so AssertMult does not allow cheating). Consider a multiplication gate where  $\mathsf{P}^*$ , i.e., instead of sending  $\delta = xy - r$  in the Fix operation (for the random value r), it sent  $\delta = xy + \Delta - r$ , for some  $\Delta \neq 0$ . Similarly, let  $\delta' = ay + \Delta' - r'$  be the value sent during the second Fix operation for that gate. We then have  $z = xy + \Delta$  and  $c = ay + \Delta'$ .

The check for this gate passes only if  $ez - c - \varepsilon y = 0$ , which gives

$$e(xy + \Delta) - (ay + \Delta') - (ex - a)y = 0$$

which only holds if  $e\Delta = \Delta'$ . This occurs with probability  $p^{-k}$ , over the random choice of  $e \in \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ . Since an incorrect statement must have at least one multiplication gate where the prover cheated, we obtain an overall soundness error of  $p^{-k}$ . If instead the error is lower, then the proof string  $\pi = (r_1, \ldots, r_t, w_1, \ldots, w_n)$  directly contains a witness  $w = (w_1, \ldots, w_n)$  for  $\mathcal{R}$ . We can construct an extractor according to Definition 3 by simply outputting w from  $\pi$ .

Finally, we prove that all inputs to Send are perfectly indistinguishable from random. Clearly the Send call in Step 2 satisfies this requirement. Likewise, the Send calls in Fix and Step 3 satisfy this requirement as well, since they are masked by uniformly random field elements which are not re-used and come from the appropriate size field (note that we need a to be in  $\mathbb{F}_{p^k}$  to ensure this holds for  $\varepsilon$ ).

#### <span id="page-37-0"></span>E.2 Proof of Theorem 4

To analyze the soundness of the batched multiplication protocol (AssertMultVec), we first use the following lemma.

<span id="page-37-1"></span>**Lemma 3.** If the protocol AssertDotProduct passes, then the input commitments have the required relation except with probability  $\frac{4 \log n + 1}{p^k - 2}$ 

*Proof.* The proof follows from [BBC<sup>+</sup>19, Theorem 5.1] where the base case has soundness error  $p^{-k}$  and the recursive step  $4/(p^k-2)$ .

We then have the following.

**Theorem** (Theorem 4, restated). If the protocol AssertMultVec passes, then the input commitments have the required relation except with probability  $\frac{n+4\log n+1}{p^k-2}$ 

*Proof.* Assume that the committed values do not fulfill the required relation, we can write  $x_i \cdot y_i = z_i + \Delta_i$  where  $\Delta_i \neq 0$  for at least one  $i \in [n]$ .

Consider the case where  $\sum_{i\in[n]} x_i y_i r^i \neq \sum_{i\in[n]} z_i r^i$ . Then the proof will fail except with probability  $\frac{4\log n+1}{p^k-2}$  by Lemma 3. If instead equality holds, then this means that  $0=\sum_{i\in[n]} \Delta_i r^i$  while at least one  $\Delta_i$  is non-zero. By Schwartz-Zippel, the equation can hold with probability at most  $n/(p^k-1)$  and the claim follows by a union bound.

# <span id="page-38-0"></span>F Proofs from § [5](#page-19-1)

## F.1 Round-by-round Soundness of the Protocols from § [3](#page-10-0) and § [4](#page-14-0)

Here, we show that both our stacked OR proof transformation and our batched multiplication verification protocol are round-by-round sound, hence, suitable for use with the Fiat-Shamir transform from § [5.](#page-19-1)

Lemma 4. The streamable IPs with LOVe from § [5.1–](#page-20-0)§ [5.2](#page-20-1) have round-by-round soundness error p −k .

Proof. We define the State function for the protocol from § [5.1](#page-20-0) as follows. Initially, on input π and the empty transcript, State extracts the witness from π and checks whether the circuit is satisfied and outputs accept or reject, accordingly. In subsequent rounds, as well as checking the circuit satisfiability, State checks whether any δ<sup>i</sup> , δ0 i or ε<sup>i</sup> values were sent incorrectly since the beginning of the protocol; if any of these hold, it outputs reject. In the final round, State only checks whether the verifier's oracle queries would succeed or not, and outputs the corresponding result.

Properties 1 and 3 of the definition follow immediately. For property 2, notice that the only place it is possible to transition from a reject state to an accept state is the last round. By the argument in the text above, this only happens with probability p −k .

Finally, we also observe that the transformation of batching AssertZero statements from § [5.2](#page-20-1) preserves the round-by-round soundness of the underlying protocol, up to the same error probability. This is because the only change to the actual computation by the verifier is during the final oracle query stage where the queries are randomly combined; the soundness in all previous rounds is unaffected. This change to the oracle queries simply adds a factor of p −k to the round-by-round soundness error.

Lemma 5. Assume that ΠOR from §[3](#page-10-0) compiles protocols Π1, . . . , Π<sup>m</sup> with round-by-round soundness error 1, . . . , m. Then ΠOR has round-by-round soundness error max{ P i∈[m] i , 1/pk}.

Proof. Since Π1, . . . , Π<sup>m</sup> each have round-by-round soundness, there exist algorithms State1, . . . , State<sup>m</sup> for them according to Definition [7.](#page-21-2) We define the State function for the protocol ΠOR as follows: Initially, on input π and the empty transcript, State attempts to extract the actual proof string π<sup>i</sup> for each subprotocol Π<sup>i</sup> from π (according to how ΠOR places it). It then runs Statei(x<sup>i</sup> ,π<sup>i</sup> , ∅) and outputs accept if any State<sup>i</sup> outputs accept, otherwise reject.

In subsequent rounds of Phase 1, State checks whether Statei(x<sup>i</sup> ,π<sup>i</sup> , Ti) accepts where T<sup>i</sup> is formed by concatenating the outputs of dec on the message a<sup>h</sup> for each i ∈ [m] and the respective substrings of the challenges. If any State<sup>i</sup> accepts then State outputs accept, otherwise reject.

At the start of Phase 2 of ΠOR, State outputs the same accept or reject as in the end of Phase 1. In the final round, State checks whether the verifier's oracle queries would succeed or not, and outputs the corresponding result.

For property 1, the claim follows as all State<sup>i</sup> would in such a case output reject by definition. By construction, property 3 will also always hold.

For property 2, during Phase 1 such a change only occurs if any of the State<sup>i</sup> changes from reject to accept. By a union bound, this happens with probability at most P i∈[m] <sup>i</sup> for each round. During Phase 2, no change of the output of State is possible. In the last round, such a state change can occur, but by the soundness proof of ΠOR with probability at most 1/p<sup>k</sup> .

**Lemma 6.** The protocol AssertMultVec from §4.3 has round-by-round soundness error  $\max\{p^{-k}, 4/(p^k-2), n/(p^k-1)\}$ .

*Proof.* We construct an algorithm State for AssertMultVec as follows: Initially, State will extract all the values  $x_i, y_i, z_i$  from  $\pi$  and check if  $x_i \cdot y_i = z_i$  for all  $i \in [n]$ . If so, then it outputs accept, otherwise reject.

In round 1, it changes to accept if the inputs to AssertDotProduct indeed satisfy the inner product relation for this choice of r, otherwise it stays with its output from the previous round.

For each round of AssertDotProduct, if n > 2 it recomputes the inputs to the next call to AssertDotProduct. State then changes from reject to accept if the choice of r makes the next such call accepting, otherwise it stays with its output from the previous round. If  $n \le 2$  it will change from reject to accept if the choice of e makes both multiplication verifications accepting.

In the final round, State checks whether the verifier's oracle queries would succeed or not, and outputs the corresponding result.

By construction, property 1 as well as property 3 holds. For property 2, observe that a state change in round 1 can only happen with probability  $n/(p^k-1)$  by the proof of Theorem 4. From the proof of Lemma 3 it follows that any state change during AssertDotProduct can happen with probability at most  $\max\{p^{-k}, 4/(p^k-2)\}$ .

#### F.2 Proof of Fiat-Shamir Transform

**Theorem** (Theorem 5, restated). Let  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  be a t-round, 1-query, public-coin IP-LOVe for relation  $\mathcal{R}$  with round-by-round soundness  $\epsilon$ , which is also complete and zero-knowledge. Then, the compiled protocol  $\Pi_{\mathsf{NIZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$  in Figure 6 is a non-interactive zero-knowledge proof in the  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{VOLE+id}}$ -hybrid model, with soundness error at most

$$p^{-k} + \epsilon t + Q(\epsilon + 2/|\mathcal{C}| + 2^{-\lambda})$$

where Q is the number of random oracle queries made by a malicious prover, and |C| is the size of the smallest challenge set in any given round of  $\Pi$ .

Furthermore, if  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  is a proof of knowledge, then so is  $\Pi^{\mathsf{VOLE}}_{\mathsf{NIZK}}$ .

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{A}$  be the malicious prover in an execution of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{NIZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$  for some statement x not in the language.

For any given round  $i \in [t]$  of  $\Pi_{LOVe}$ , let

$$\mathsf{st}_i = \mathsf{State}(x, \boldsymbol{\pi}, \boldsymbol{e}_1 \| \boldsymbol{a}_1 \| \dots \boldsymbol{a}_{i-1} \| \boldsymbol{e}_i)$$

where  $\pi$  is the proof string chosen by  $\mathcal{A}$ .

We define the following two events concerning the prover A:

- $E_1$ : the event that  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a proof string  $\pi$  and a corresponding accepting transcript.
- $E_2$ : the event that both of the following hold: (1) If

$$(q_0, \dots, q_{t-1}) := (x \| \text{id} \| d \| a_0, a_1 \| e_1, \dots, a_{t-1} \| e_{t-1})$$

and  $\mathcal{A}$  queries both  $q_i$  and  $q_j$  to the random oracle for some i < j, then  $q_i$  was queried first; and (2) For any i where  $\mathsf{st}_i = \mathsf{reject}$  and  $\mathsf{st}_{i+1} = \mathsf{accept}$ ,  $\mathcal{A}$  queries  $(a_i || e_i)$ .

<span id="page-40-0"></span>**Lemma 7.** If the malicious prover makes Q queries to the random oracle H, then,  $\Pr[E_1 \land \neg E_2] \le \epsilon t + Q/|\mathcal{C}|$ .

*Proof.* Suppose that event  $E_1$  occurs, and  $E_2$  does not. Then, at least one of the following holds: (1)  $\mathcal{A}$  queried  $\mathbf{q}_j = \mathbf{a}_j \| \mathbf{e}_j$ , and then later  $\mathbf{q}_i$ , for some i < j, (2) There exists an i where  $\mathsf{st}_i = \mathsf{reject}$ ,  $\mathsf{st}_{i+1} = \mathsf{accept}$ , and  $\mathcal{A}$  did not query  $\mathbf{a}_i \| \mathbf{e}_i$ .

Suppose (1) is true, and let i, j be a pair of indices where i < j and j - i is smallest, such that  $\mathcal{A}$  queried  $q_j$  before  $q_i$ . We can therefore assume that  $\mathcal{A}$  did not query the oracle on  $q_{j-1}$  before querying  $q_j = a_j || e_j$ . Since  $e_j = \mathsf{H}(q_{j-1})$ , this means that the behaviour of  $\mathcal{A}$  up until querying  $a_j || e_j$  is independent of  $e_j$ , and so this query happens with probability at most  $Q/|\mathcal{C}|$ .

In case (2), let i be an index such that  $\mathsf{st}_i = \mathsf{reject}, \mathsf{st}_{i+1} = \mathsf{accept}$ , but  $\mathcal{A}$  did not query  $a_i \| e_i$ . It follows that the behaviour of  $\mathcal{A}$  is independent of  $e_{i+1}$ , so by the round-by-round soundness of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$ , and taking a union bound over all t rounds, this occurs only with probability  $\epsilon t$ .

<span id="page-40-1"></span>**Lemma 8.** If the malicious prover makes Q queries to the random oracle H, then  $\Pr[E_1 \wedge E_2] \leq p^{-k} + Q\epsilon + Q/2^{\lambda} + Q/|\mathcal{C}|$ .

*Proof.* Suppose that the proof accepts and event  $E_2$  occurs. Since x is not in the language, but the proof accepts, it either holds that there exists a round i where  $\mathsf{st}_i = \mathsf{reject}$  and  $\mathsf{st}_{i+1} = \mathsf{accept}$ , or,  $\mathsf{P}$  cheated during the MAC check when performing the oracle query. In the latter case,  $\mathsf{P}$  must have guessed the MAC key  $\alpha$ , which only happens with probability  $p^{-k}$ . Suppose instead the former. By assumption,  $\mathcal{A}$  made the query  $a_i \| e_i$  to the random oracle to obtain the challenge  $e_{i+1}$  which caused  $\mathsf{st}_{i+1}$  to accept.

We argue that this implies the values  $x, \pi$  and  $a_1, \ldots, a_i$  were all fixed by  $\mathcal{A}$  at the time of querying  $a_i || e_i$ .

Claim 1. If A made query  $\mathbf{q}_i = (\mathbf{a}_i || \mathbf{e}_i)$ , then it also queried  $\mathbf{q}_0, \dots, \mathbf{q}_{i-1}$ , and all these queries were made after calling  $\mathcal{F}_{VOLE+id}$ , except with probability at most  $Q/|\mathcal{C}| + Q/2^{\lambda}$ .

Proof. Suppose at least one such query was not made, and let j < i be an index where  $q_j$  was not queried, but  $q_{j+1} = (a_{j+1} || e_{j+1})$  was. Since  $e_{j+1} = \mathsf{H}(q_j)$ , the probability that  $\mathcal{A}$  queried  $q_{j+1}$  is at most  $Q/|\mathcal{C}|$ . Next, we argue that all queries  $q_0, \ldots, q_i$  must have been made after  $\mathcal{A}$  received the random identifier id from  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{VOLE+id}}$ . Note that by assumption (1) of event  $E_2$ , these queries were all made in order so we only need to consider  $q_0$ . Since  $q_0 = x \|\mathsf{id}\| d \| a_0$ , and id is sampled from  $\{0,1\}^{\lambda}$  after  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{VOLE+id}}$  is called, however, this happens with probability at most  $Q/2^{\lambda}$ .

Assuming now that queries  $q_0, \ldots, q_i$  were all made after calling  $\mathcal{F}_{VOLE+id}$ , then this was also after choosing x and the proof  $\pi$ , since after  $\mathcal{F}_{VOLE+id}$  has been called, the input to query  $q_0$  fixes these. It follows the entire partial transcript up to message  $a_i$  is also fixed, at the time when  $\mathcal{A}$  makes query  $q_i = (a_i || e_i)$  to get the challenge  $e_{i+1}$ . From round-by-round soundness, we get that the probability that  $\mathsf{st}_{i+1} = \mathsf{accept}$  for any such i, is at most  $Q\epsilon$ .

Taking a union bound across all failure events, we get an overall probability of at most  $p^{-k} + Q\epsilon + Q/2^{\lambda} + Q/|\mathcal{C}|$ .

We can then sum up the bounds from Lemmas 7 and 8, getting

$$\Pr[E_1] = \Pr[E_1 \wedge E_2] + \Pr[E_1 \wedge \neg E_2] \le p^{-k} + \epsilon t + Q(\epsilon + 2/|\mathcal{C}| + 2^{-\lambda})$$

Finally, for the prove of knowledge property, if  $\Pi_{\mathsf{LOVe}}$  is also a proof of knowledge, then there is an extractor E that on input  $x, \pi$  for an accepting proof, outputs the witness. We can therefore construct an extractor for  $\Pi_{\mathsf{NIZK}}^{\mathsf{VOLE}}$  as follows: simulating the  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{VOLE+id}}$  functionality, the extractor obtains the prover's random commitments  $r_i$ , and then uses these to compute each element of the proof  $\pi_i$ ; it then runs E on input  $x, \pi$ . Given that the proof accepts, this extractor's success probability is the same as that of E.

## <span id="page-41-0"></span>G Efficient Binary Multiplication Using RFMEs

Recall that the goal is for the prover to assert that, for committed bit vectors  $[\boldsymbol{x}] = ([x_1], \dots, [x_n])$ ,  $[\boldsymbol{y}] = ([y_1], \dots, [y_n])$ , and  $[\boldsymbol{z}] = ([z_1], \dots, [z_n])$ , it holds that  $x_i y_i = z_i$  for all i. As we provided intuition for the construction in § 4.4, we jump right to the construction.

Let  $f: \mathbb{F}_2^{15} \times \mathbb{F}_2^{30} \to \mathbb{F}_2^{45}$  be a linear bijection such that there exists a  $\boldsymbol{d}$  such that  $f(\boldsymbol{z}, \boldsymbol{d}) = \phi(\boldsymbol{x}) \cdot \phi(\boldsymbol{y})$  when  $\boldsymbol{z} = \psi(\phi(\boldsymbol{x}) \cdot \phi(\boldsymbol{y}))$ . The vector  $\boldsymbol{d}$  does not have any inherent meaning outside of the f function. In practice, we construct f (and decide what  $\boldsymbol{d}$  is) by taking the matrix form of  $\psi$  and adding rows to it to make it a full-rank, square matrix. Let  $\boldsymbol{g} = (1, x, \dots, x^{45}) \in (\mathbb{F}_{2^{45}})^{45}$  be a constant vector, where x here denotes the polynomial variable when representing a Galois extension field element as a polynomial.

The protocol proceeds as follows:

- 1. The prover computes d from  $f^{-1}(\phi(x) \cdot \phi(y))$ , and runs  $Fix(d_i) \to [d_i]$  on each bit of d.
- 2. Both parties locally compute  $[a] \leftarrow \phi([\boldsymbol{x}]), [b] \leftarrow \phi([\boldsymbol{y}]), \text{ and } [c] \leftarrow \boldsymbol{g} \cdot f([\boldsymbol{z}], [\boldsymbol{d}]).$
- 3. Run Random( $\mathbb{F}_{2^{45}}$ )  $\rightarrow$  [t] and Fix(ty)  $\rightarrow$  [s].
- 4. Run  $\mathsf{Send}_{[\mathsf{V}\to\mathsf{P}]}(e)$  where  $e\in_R \mathbb{F}_{p^k}$ .
- 5. Run AssertMult([a], [b], [c], [t], [s], e).

Overall, this gives us a prover-to-verifier per-bit communication cost of 9 bits.

Security. Since f is bijective, there is exactly one (c, d) pair which will satisfy AssertMult. Thus, if the AssertMult check passes, then we know that  $\phi([a]) \cdot \phi([b]) = f(c, d)$ . Furthermore,  $c = a * b = \psi(\phi(a) \cdot \phi(b))$  since f is bijective.