

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Towards Efficiency-Preserving Round Compression in MPC

Do fewer rounds mean more computation?

Prabhanjan Ananth\* Arka Rai Choudhuri<sup>†</sup> Aarushi Goel<sup>‡</sup> Abhishek Jain<sup>§</sup>

#### **Abstract**

Reducing the rounds of interaction in secure multiparty computation (MPC) protocols has been the topic of study of many works. One popular approach to reduce rounds is to construct *round compression compilers*. A round compression compiler is one that takes a highly interactive protocol and transforms it into a protocol with far fewer rounds. The design of round compression compilers has traditionally focused on preserving the security properties of the underlying protocol and in particular, not much attention has been given towards preserving their computational and communication efficiency. Indeed, the recent round compression compilers that yield round-optimal MPC protocols incur large computational and communication overhead.

In this work, we initiate the study of *efficiency-preserving* round compression compilers, i.e. compilers that translate the efficiency benefits of the underlying highly interactive protocols to the fewer round setting. Focusing on the honest majority setting (with near-optimal corruption threshold  $\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon$ , for any  $\varepsilon > 0$ ), we devise a new compiler that yields two round (i.e., round optimal) semi-honest MPC with similar communication efficiency as the underlying (arbitrary round) protocol. By applying our compiler on the most efficient known MPC protocols, we obtain a two-round semi-honest protocol based on one-way functions, with total communication (and per-party computation) cost  $\widetilde{O}(s+n^4)$  – a significant improvement over prior two-round protocols with cost  $\widetilde{O}(n^\tau s + n^{\tau+1}d)$ , where  $\tau \geq 2$ , s is the size of the circuit computing the function and d the corresponding depth. Our result can also be extended to handle malicious adversaries, either using stronger assumptions in the public key infrastructure (PKI) model, or in the plain model using an extra round.

An artifact of our approach is that the resultant protocol is "unbalanced" in the amount of computation performed by different parties. We give evidence that this is *necessary* in our setting. Our impossibility result makes novel use of the "MPC-in-the-head" paradigm which has typically been used to demonstrate feasibility results.

<sup>\*</sup>University of California Santa Barbara. prabhanjan@cs.ucsb.edu

<sup>†</sup>Johns Hopkins University. achoud@cs.jhu.edu

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>‡</sup>Johns Hopkins University. aarushig@cs.jhu.edu

<sup>§</sup>Johns Hopkins University. abhishek@cs.jhu.edu

{1}------------------------------------------------

# Contents

| 1 |                                                                           | Introduction                                                                      | 3  |
|---|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
|   | 1.1                                                                       | Our Results<br>                                                                   | 3  |
|   | 1.2                                                                       | Our Techniques<br>                                                                | 5  |
|   |                                                                           | 1.2.1<br>Efficiency-Preservation via Committees<br>                               | 5  |
|   |                                                                           | 1.2.2<br>Impossibility of Balanced Protocols<br>                                  | 10 |
|   | 1.3                                                                       | Related Work<br>                                                                  | 11 |
| 2 | Two-Round Efficiency Preserving Compiler in the Client-Server Model<br>11 |                                                                                   |    |
|   | 2.1                                                                       | Special Two-Round MPC<br>                                                         | 11 |
|   | 2.2                                                                       | From Special MPC to Efficiency Preserving Compiler in the Client-Server Model<br> | 13 |
|   |                                                                           | 2.2.1<br>Construction<br>                                                         | 14 |
|   |                                                                           | 2.2.2<br>Proof of Security<br>                                                    | 18 |
| 3 | Efficiency Preserving Compiler in the Plain Model<br>21                   |                                                                                   |    |
|   | 3.1                                                                       | Felection-hybrid Model<br>Phase One:<br>                                          | 23 |
|   |                                                                           | 3.1.1<br>Proof of Security<br>                                                    | 26 |
|   |                                                                           | 3.1.2<br>Hybrids<br>                                                              | 27 |
|   | 3.2                                                                       | Phase Two<br>                                                                     | 28 |
| 4 |                                                                           | Impossibility Result                                                              | 30 |
| A |                                                                           | Preliminaries                                                                     | 35 |
|   | A.1                                                                       | Secure Multi-Party Computation<br>                                                | 35 |
|   |                                                                           | A.1.1<br>Adversarial Behavior<br>                                                 | 35 |
|   | A.2                                                                       | Garbled Circuits<br>                                                              | 36 |
|   | A.3                                                                       | Pseudorandom Generators<br>                                                       | 37 |
|   | A.4                                                                       | Message Authentication Code<br>                                                   | 37 |
| B | Detailed Complexity Calculation<br>37                                     |                                                                                   |    |
|   | B.1                                                                       | Protocol in the Client-Server Model<br>                                           | 37 |
|   | B.2                                                                       | Protocol in the Plain Model<br>                                                   | 38 |

{2}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-2-0"></span>1 Introduction

Understanding the minimal rounds of interaction required to carry out a cryptographic task has been the subject of extensive study over the past few decades. While ad-hoc techniques are often used to obtain low round complexity solutions, a more systematic approach adopted in the literature is to build a *round compression compiler*. As the name suggests, a round compression compiler transforms a highly interactive protocol into one with far fewer rounds. The celebrated compiler of Fiat and Shamir [FS87] is one such example that transforms a public-coin interactive proof system into a non-interactive one (in the random oracle model).

Recently, a sequence of works have designed round compression compilers to resolve major open problems in cryptography. For instance, the recent result on non-interactive zero knowledge proofs for NP from learning with errors was designed by instantiating the Fiat-Shamir methodology [CCH<sup>+</sup>19, PS19]. In the context of secure multiparty computation (MPC) [Yao86, GMW87, BGW88, CCD88] – the focus of this work – a recent sequence of exciting works devised novel round compression compilers to construct round-optimal MPC protocols based on minimal assumptions [GS18, BL18, ACGJ18, ABT18, ABT19, ACGJ19, GIS18].

**Rounds vs Computation in MPC.** In this work, we continue the study of round compression in MPC. Starting from [BMR90], round compression in MPC has been extensively studied over the years in a variety of models. Traditionally, most works have focused on devising compilers that preserve the security properties of the underlying protocol. However, not much emphasis has been placed on preserving the *computational and communication efficiency*.

Indeed, the recent round compression compilers that yield round-optimal MPC [GS18, BL18, ACGJ18, ABT18, GIS18, ACGJ19, ABT19] incur a large overhead in computation and communication. Some of these compilers work in the setting where a majority of parties are allowed to be dishonest, while others require a majority of the parties to be honest. In this work, we focus on the latter setting, referred to as *honest majority*. In this setting, consider an arbitrary round MPC protocol with total computational work W = W(n, s), where n denotes the number of parties executing the protocol and s denotes the size of the circuit implementing the function being computed. Then, applying the compilers of [ACGJ18, ABT18, GIS18, ACGJ19, ABT19] on such a protocol yields a two round protocol with total communication and per-party computation  $\widetilde{O}(n^{\tau} \cdot W)$ , where  $\tau \geq 2$ , ignoring multiplicative factors in security parameter. Plugging in the most efficient known multi-round MPC protocols [GIP15, DIK+08, DIK10] with total cost  $\widetilde{O}(s+nd)$  (where d is the circuit depth), we obtain a two round protocol with significantly worse total communication (and per-party computation)  $\widetilde{O}(n^{\tau}s+n^{\tau+1}d)$ .

The above state of affairs raises the question: does round compression necessarily require high computational and communication cost? If not, can we design *efficiency-preserving* round compression compilers for MPC that preserve both the security as well as the computational and communication efficiency of the underlying protocol?

## <span id="page-2-1"></span>1.1 Our Results

We study efficiency-preserving round compression compilers for MPC. As a first step in this direction, we narrow our focus on the honest majority setting.

Our main result stated below holds with respect to *semi-honest* adversaries. Later, we also discuss extensions to the case of *malicious* adversaries.

<span id="page-2-2"></span>**Theorem 1** (Informal). Let n be the number of parties and let  $\lambda$  be the security parameter, such that n is polynomially related to  $\lambda$ . Assuming one-way functions, there is a round compression compiler that transforms a semi-honest secure MPC protocol  $\Pi$  for any n-party functionality  $\mathcal F$  into a two-round semi-honest secure protocol  $\Pi'$  for  $\mathcal F$  with the following properties:

- If  $\Pi$  tolerates corruption threshold  $\varepsilon$ , then  $\Pi'$  tolerates  $\varepsilon'$ , for arbitrary constants  $\varepsilon' < \varepsilon < \frac{1}{2}$ .

{3}------------------------------------------------

- If the total computation cost of  $\Pi$  is W=W(n,s), where s is the circuit size representation of  $\mathcal{F}$ , then the amortized per-party computation cost and total communication cost of  $\Pi'$  is

$$\tilde{O}\left(\left(W(\log^2(n),s)+n^4\right)\right)$$

where the  $\widetilde{O}$  notation suppresses polynomial factors in  $\lambda$  and polylog factors in n.

To handle smaller values of n, we can use a *hybrid mode* of compilation: if n is small, simply use existing compilers; for larger values of n, one should use our compiler.

Comparison with Prior Work. Our compiler performs significantly better than previous compilers [ABT18, ABT19, ACGJ18] that yield two-round protocols with total communication and per-party computation cost of  $\tilde{O}(n^{\tau}W(n,s))$ , where  $\tau \geq 2$ . All of these existing two round compilers [ABT18, ABT19, ACGJ18] rely on the following high level idea<sup>1</sup>- they view the entire computation done in the underlying protocol as a circuit and then require all the parties to communicate at least one-bit for each gate in this circuit, with every other party over pair-wise private channels in the first round. This adds a multiplicative overhead of at least  $n^2$  in the complexity of the resulting protocol. Infact, the exact overhead in these compilers might even be more than  $n^2$ , because these are not the only messages that the parties compute and send in those compilers. However, for comparison, it suffices for us to use a conservative approximation, i.e.,  $\tau \geq 2$ .

On the other hand, by applying our compiler on the most asymptotically efficient MPC protocols [GIP15, DIK+08, DIK10] with total computation cost  $W(n,s) = \tilde{O}(s+nd)$ , we obtain a two-round protocol with total communication and per-party computation cost  $\tilde{O}(s+n^4)$ . In contrast, applying previous compilers on the same protocols yields two-round protocols with total communication and per-party computation cost  $\tilde{O}(n^{\tau} \cdot s + n^{\tau+1}d)$ , where  $\tau > 2$ .

**Extensions.** With suitable modifications to the above compiler, we can obtain additional results that achieve different tradeoffs, both in the case of semi-honest and malicious adversaries.

- Semi-honest: The above compiler can be easily modified such that the total (as opposed to amortized per-party) computation cost is  $\widetilde{O}(W(\log^2(n),s)+n^4)$ , at the cost of increasing a round of interaction. <sup>2</sup>
- Malicious: The above compiler can also be easily modified to work against malicious adversaries, yielding either two round protocols in the PKI model assuming verifiable random functions [MRV99], or three round protocols in the plain model without additional assumptions. Both these protocols achieve the standard notion of security with abort, assuming that the underlying protocol also achieves the same security.

**Impossibility of Balanced Protocols.** Our compiler utilizes a committee-based approach which has been used in many prior works in the larger round setting. A caveat of this approach is that it results in *unbalanced* protocols where a small subset of parties (namely, the committee members) perform much of the "heavy" computation, while other parties only do "light" computation. Furthermore, this approach also yields a sub-optimal corruption threshold (i.e., n > 2t + 1, where t is the number of corrupted parties). In view of this, we investigate whether this is inherent.

We give evidence that our approach is "tight" by showing that there exists some functionality for which there does not exist a *balanced* constant round (even insecure) MPC protocol with total computational cost  $\widetilde{O}(s)$ . In contrast, our compiler yields an unbalanced constant-round secure MPC protocol with roughly the same total cost (ignoring additive terms).

<span id="page-3-1"></span><span id="page-3-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup>While this idea is made explicit in [ABT18, ABT19], it is easy to observe that [ACGJ18] also implicitly uses the same idea.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup>If there are only a constant number of parties that are recipients of the output, then the resultant protocol from Theorem 1 already achieves this result.

{4}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-4-0"></span>1.2 Our Techniques

In this section we describe the main ideas underlying our results. In Section [1.2.1](#page-4-1) we give an overview of our techniques for designing efficiency-preserving round-compression compilers. Later, in Section [1.2.2,](#page-9-0) we describe ideas for proving impossibility of balanced constant-round MPC protocols with total computation cost O˜(s). Throughout this section we assume τ ≥ 2, and is hereby omitted for clarity of exposition.

## <span id="page-4-1"></span>1.2.1 Efficiency-Preservation via Committees

We now proceed to describe the techniques used in our compiler. At a high-level, we devise a two step approach:

- Step 1: Special two round MPC. First, given a potentially highly interactive MPC protocol with total computational work W = W(n, s), where s is the size of the circuit and n is the number of parties, we apply a round-compression compiler to obtain a *special* two round protocol with some specific structural properties. The total computational complexity of this *special MPC* is proportional to O˜(n τ · W). [3](#page-4-2) Even though it does not achieve our desired efficiency, its structural properties are crucially used in the second step.
- Step 2: Efficiency boost. We then leverage the structural properties of the special two round MPC to transform it into a new protocol with the same round complexity, but improved asymptotic computational and communication complexity.

We postpone the discussion on the structural properties required from the two round protocol. Instead, we first focus on Step 2; the efficiency boosting transformation would then guide us towards identifying these structural properties.

Starting Ideas for Efficiency Boost. We first focus on the semi-honest setting, and defer the malicious case to later. Given a special two-round MPC, our starting idea for improving its efficiency is to use the classical *committee-based approach*, where the bulk of the computation is "delegated" to a small committee of parties, while the remaining parties do very little work.

More specifically, the main idea in a committee-based approach is to first elect a "small" committee, while ensuring that a majority of the parties in the committee are honest and letting these elected parties run the actual protocol. Since the parties not elected to the committee are no longer doing any work, we need a mechanism to allow these parties to transfer their inputs to the committee members. To ensure privacy of their inputs, the parties who are not elected in the committee, secret-share their inputs amongst the committee members. The elected committee then runs an MPC computing a modified functionality F 0 , that collects all the secret shares of all the non-elected parties, reconstructs their inputs, and computed the original function F. Unlike the original function F, F 0 requires inputs from only the elected committee members, which as described above, also implicitly contains the remaining parties' inputs. Since the cost of the computation is dominated by the number of parties involved in the "heavy" computation, it suffices to use a committee of size poly-logarithmic in the total number of parties to yield non-trivial savings in the total cost.

In order to prevent an adversary from corrupting a majority of the members in the committee, it is important to choose the committee at random. This means that the identities of the committee members are unknown to all parties at the start of the protocol; instead, we must implement a committee election mechanism during the protocol execution. Let Π be the two-round protocol obtained by applying the round-compression compiler in the first step. Now, applying the committee-based approach over Π, we get the following five round protocol Π<sup>0</sup> :

1. Round 1. Each party tosses an appropriately biased coin to decide whether or not it will be in the committee and reveals the result to all other parties.

<span id="page-4-2"></span><sup>3</sup>While special MPC with total computation proportional to O˜(n τ · W) can be constructed (as we discuss later), the second step of our approach is actually less sensitive to the exact asymptotic complexity of special MPC. In particular, the exact dependence on n is not very important as long the total computation in special MPC has only linear dependence on W.

{5}------------------------------------------------

- 2. Round 2. The parties that are not part of the committee secret share their inputs amongst the committee members.
- 3. Round 3. The committee members compute and send their first round messages in π.
- 4. Round 4. The committee members compute and send their second round messages in π.
- 5. Round 5. The committee members reconstruct the output and then send the output to all other parties.

Since the bulk of the computation is performed by the committee members, the amortized per-party computation in Π<sup>0</sup> depends only on polylog(n) as opposed to poly(n). The main problem however, is that Π<sup>0</sup> requires five rounds, while we seek a two round protocol.

Committee-Based Approach in Two-Rounds. Towards obtaining a two round protocol, we start with the observation that if protocol Π allows for public reconstruction of output based on the transcript of the last round, then Rounds 4 and 5 of Π<sup>0</sup> can be parallelized. Indeed, this property is satisfied by the protocol output by our compiler in Step 1[4](#page-5-0) and is also true for other recent round-compression compilers [\[GS18,](#page-32-2) [BL18,](#page-31-3) [ACGJ19\]](#page-30-3). While this yields a saving of one round, it is not clear how to proceed further. Indeed, to obtain a two-round protocol, the task of electing a committee and sharing of inputs by the remaining parties must be parallelized with the computation done by the committee members using Π. In other words, Rounds 1,2 and 3 must seemingly be executed in the first round of Π<sup>0</sup> , and Round 4 in the second round. This, however, raises some fundamental challenges:

- 1. Challenge 1: Sharing of Inputs. If the committee election happens in parallel with input sharing, the noncommittee members (henceforth referred to as the *clients*) would not know the identities of the committee members (henceforth referred to as the *servers*) at the time of distributing their inputs. How can the clients secret share their inputs with the servers, without knowing their identities? It seems like there is no way to get around this, which means that the servers must start their computation without knowing their "entire input". But parallelizing committee election and input sharing is crucial both for the correctness and security. Indeed, in any two round MPC protocol, the private inputs of all parties must be "fixed" in the first round to prevent input resetting attacks [\[HLP11\]](#page-32-5).
- 2. Challenge 2: Blind Computation. All known two-round honest majority MPC protocols based on minimal assumptions [\[ACGJ18,](#page-30-0) [ACGJ19,](#page-30-3) [ABT18,](#page-30-1) [GIS18,](#page-32-3) [ABT19\]](#page-30-2) necessarily rely on the use of private channels in the first round. Since the committee election and computation must happen simultaneously, it is not clear how the servers would exchange private channel messages in the first round without knowing each other's identities. It seems like we require the servers to start their computation "in the blind".

To address these two challenges, we require some structural properties from Π. We now describe them.

Special Two Round MPC. We require the following two structural properties from the special two round MPC in Step 1:

- 1. Decomposability: The first round messages of each party in a special two round MPC protocol can be decomposed into: (i) "light" messages that depend on the input but whose computational complexity is independent of W, and (ii) "heavy" messages that are independent of the input but whose computational complexity may depend on W. The light and heavy messages may share common randomness.
- 2. Independence: The private channel messages in a special two round MPC protocol should be independent of the inputs of the parties.

<span id="page-5-0"></span><sup>4</sup> Protocols obtained by applying the compiler from [\[ACGJ18\]](#page-30-0) always satisfy this property, while the compilers in [\[ABT18,](#page-30-1) [ABT19\]](#page-30-2), yield protocols that satisfy the "public reconstruction of outputs" property only when applied to a (multi-round) protocols that also satisfy this property.

{6}------------------------------------------------

At a first glance, these properties may seem quite unconventional and strong. Indeed, our main technical contribution is in identifying these rather unconventional and specific structural properties of two-round protocols and then leveraging these properties for efficiency gains in the setting of two rounds. In particular, as we describe below, the decomposability property, with additional delegation of computation techniques, is used to address Challenge 1 and the independence property is used to address Challenge 2. Moreover, as we discuss later, these properties can, in fact, be achieved generically.

Solving Challenge 1. Towards explaining our main ideas, let us first consider a simpler scenario where Π only consists of broadcast channel messages (we deal with private channel messages later while addressing challenge 2). As noted earlier, the main issue in parallelizing input distribution and committee election is that the servers cannot know their entire input in the first round, yet the first round messages of the protocol must fix the inputs of all the parties. Moreover, the second round messages of all parties can also depend on the entire first round transcript (which in turn must depend on the inputs).

To address these problems, a natural starting idea is to require the clients to *aid* the servers in the computation of the first and second round messages of Π while still achieving the desired efficiency. Let us first focus on the second round messages of Π; specifically, that of a particular server (say) S<sup>i</sup> . Our first idea is to run a separate *helper protocol* involving all parties (servers and clients) to help compute the second round messages of S<sup>i</sup> . This helper protocol can take the input shares from all clients and the randomness from all servers to first internally compute the first round messages of all servers and then compute and output the second round message of S<sup>i</sup> . A naive implementation of this approach, however, runs into an obvious problem: since the per-party complexity for computing second round messages of the servers in Π is O˜(n τ · W), the size of the functionality implemented by the helper protocol, and thereby the per-party computation performed by the clients, also has the same total complexity of O˜(n τ · W).

Towards addressing this problem, we first use a delegation of computation approach implemented via garbled circuits and a modified two-round helper protocol as follows:

- We require the server S<sup>i</sup> to garble and send its second round next-message function of Π in the second round of Π<sup>0</sup> . This circuit takes as input the entire first round transcript of Π and computes, and outputs, Si's second round messages in Π.
- The input wire labels for this garbled circuit are computed via a modified two-round helper protocol for a specific functionality. This functionality takes as input, secret-shares from the clients and randomness used to compute the first round messages from the servers. It also takes as input all of the garbled circuit input wire labels from S<sup>i</sup> . It internally computes the first round message of all servers and then selects and outputs the corresponding input wire labels.

Thus far we have ignored the first round messages and an observant reader may notice that this solution still does not suffice; indeed, since the size of the first round messages in Π is also proportional to O˜(n τ · W), the clients still need to spend the same computational effort.

*Our main conceptual idea to overcome this problem is to leverage the decomposability property of special MPC*. Recall that the decomposability property requires that in the first round, each party sends computationally light messages depend on its input and computationally heavy messages that are independent of its input. We leverage this property as follows: we require the servers to compute (on their own) and send the heavy messages in the first round, which can then be hardwired in the *circuit* that S<sup>i</sup> garbles in the second round. The *helper protocol* involving all parties is now only required to compute the input wire labels corresponding to the light messages, as opposed to the entire first round messages, which is efficient. Moreover, this also ensures that the inputs of all parties are indeed fixed in the first round, which is necessary for security.

Finally, we remark that if the light messages in Π can be computed using a degree-1 computation over the parties' inputs, then we can use lightweight protocols such as [\[IKP10\]](#page-33-3) (satisfying security with abort) for quadratic 

{7}------------------------------------------------

functionalities to further reduce the work done by clients. We later show that our compiler from Step 1 achieves this property as well.

**Solving Challenge 2.** While so far we have only considered the simplified setting of broadcast-only protocols, in reality, our protocol  $\Pi$  from the first step (necessarily) consists of both the broadcast and P2P messages. As described earlier, this creates the challenge that the servers cannot send P2P messages to each other in the first round without knowing their identities. Since the computation must start in the first round itself, we need a mechanism for "computing in the blind".

We implement such a mechanism by allowing the servers to encrypt their private channel messages and broadcasting them in the first round and then enabling others to somehow compute on these encrypted messages. To help compute on the encrypted messages, we again utilize a delegation of computation approach:

- Each server garbles a circuit that takes the decryption key as input and decrypts the corresponding first round encrypted message that was intended for it and computes its second round message.
- Wire labels corresponding to the decryption key are computed via a helper protocol involving all properties, similar to the solution to the previous challenge. Since the helper protocol is only responsible for computing labels corresponding to the decryption keys, the total work done by the parties (especially clients) in this helper protocol does not depend upon the complexity of the next-message functions of the parties in  $\Pi$ .

An observant reader, however, may notice that this approach fails completely, if the P2P messages in  $\Pi$  were dependent on the input. Indeed, since the servers do not have access to their entire input in the first round, it is unclear how they would compute and encrypt these messages in such a case.

Our next conceptual idea to overcome this problem is to leverage the independence property of special MPC. Recall that this property requires all of the private channel messages in  $\Pi$  to be independent of the inputs. Given this property, the above solution already works.

**Realizing Special Two Round MPC.** Recall that a special two-round MPC must satisfy the following requirements:

- 1. **Structural Properties:** It must satisfy the decomposability and independence properties defined earlier.
- 2. **Complexity:** The total communication complexity of the special MPC must be  $\tilde{O}(n^{\tau} \cdot W)$ . (As discussed earlier, the key requirement here is the linear dependence on W, whereas the exact multiplicative dependence on n is less important since this special MPC is only executed by polylog(n)-sized) committee of parties.)

We address each of these requirements separately. There is a surprisingly simple approach for achieving the structural properties *generically*. Specifically, we show that any two-round protocol  $\pi$  with the delayed-function property<sup>5</sup> can be made to achieve these structural properties without affecting its asymptotic efficiency. The idea is to have each party  $P_i$  sample a random mask  $r_i$  for its input  $x_i$ , and broadcast  $x_i \oplus r_i$  in the first round. Additionally, the parties run  $\pi$  on a modified functionality  $f'_{x_1 \oplus r_i, \dots, x_n \oplus r_n}$  that has  $x_1 \oplus r_i, \dots, x_n \oplus r_n$  hardwired in its description, such that

$$f'_{x_1 \oplus r_i, \dots, x_n \oplus r_n}(r_1, \dots, r_n) = f(x_1, \dots, x_n),$$

where f is the original functionality. It is easy to see that because of this simple modification, the first round messages of party  $P_i$  in the modified protocol  $\Pi$  can now be decomposed into a "light" message  $x_i \oplus r_i$  that depends on its input and "heavy" messages which correspond to its first round messages in  $\pi$ . Moreover, because of the delayed-function property of  $\pi$ , these "heavy" first round messages in  $\Pi$  are independent of their actual inputs. This already achieves decomposability. With regards to independence property, we first note that the above

<span id="page-7-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup>At a high level, a two-round MPC protocol satisfies the delayed-function property if the first round messages of the honest parties are computed independent of the functionality, but may depend on the size of the circuit implementing the functionality.

{8}------------------------------------------------

transformation already ensures that the first round private channel messages in  $\Pi$  are independent of the parties' inputs. However, their second round private channel messages may still depend on their inputs. Towards this, we observe that any two-round protocol that makes use of private channel messages in the second round can be modified into one that only uses broadcast channel messages in the second round. This can be done by letting the parties exchange one-time pads with each other in the first round, and then broadcasting their second round messages encrypted under these one-time pads. With this modification, we can also achieve independence.

Since the above approach works generically with any protocol that satisfies the delayed-function property, it can also be applied to a delayed-function variant of [ABT18, ABT19, ACGJ18]. We note that while [ACGJ18] already satisfies the delayed function property, the two-round compilers of [ABT18, ABT19] do not. A simple modification to this construction can yield two-round protocols with delayed-function property without compromising its efficiency. We refer the reader to Section 2.1 for more details on this modification.

Moreover, when applied to an interactive protocol with total computation W, the compilers of [ACGJ18, ABT18, ABT19] already yield two-round protocols with total communication at least  $\tilde{O}(n^{\tau} \cdot W)$ . Hence, in summary, either of the recent two-round protocols [ACGJ18, ABT18, ABT19] in the honest majority setting, with the above modifications, can be used to obtain a two-round special MPC with all of the required properties.

Summary (so far). Putting the above solutions together, we now obtain a two-round semi-honest protocol that achieves total communication complexity  $\tilde{O}(W(\text{polylog}(n),s)+n^4)^6$  and total computation complexity  $\tilde{O}(nW(\text{polylog}(n),s)+n^5)$  if we elect a committee of size polylog(n). The computation complexity is higher than the communication complexity. This is because in order to reconstruct the output, all the parties must locally compute on all the second round messages of all parties, which adds a multiplicative overhead of n to the computation complexity. We note that we are limited to this computation complexity in two rounds, since we do not know of any two round compilers with better and more efficient output reconstruction algorithms. However, if we add another round such that only one of the parties the output at the second round and broadcasts it to others in the third round, we can get optimal computational efficiency.

**Handling Malicious Adversaries.** The above approach only works against semi-honest adversaries. For the malicious setting, we need to start with a malicious special two round MPC protocol. We are now faced with the following additional issues in the malicious setting:

- 1. **Input Consistency.** Recall that in the semi-honest protocol proposed above, the servers are required to use the same randomness as input in multiple sub-protocols: (1) for computing its "heavy" first round messages in  $\Pi$  and (2) in the helper protocol for computing its "light" first round messages. Since the light messages depend on the inputs of clients, if a malicious server does not use the input randomness consistently in the two sub-protocols, it could potentially change the input share of an honest client.
- 2. **Malicious Secure Committee Election.** Our naive way of doing a committee election where the parties can randomly elect themselves to be in the committee, clearly does not work in the malicious setting. A corrupt party can always elect it self to be in the committee.

Towards describing our solution to the first problem, let us first address why simply compiling a maliciously secure protocol  $\Pi$  with the compiler described above is not sufficient. Recall that in general, a maliciously secure protocol cannot prevent adversarial parties from choosing their inputs arbitrarily. However, in the above compiler, since the underlying (maliciously secure) protocol  $\Pi$  is only run amongst the committee members and their inputs also contain input shares of the honest clients, we cannot afford to let them choose their entire input arbitrarily.

To prevent this, we make use of one-time message authentication codes (MACs). The honest clients compute a MAC over each of their input shares. For the MAC's to be verified, they must be checked, and hence require

<span id="page-8-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup>For this technical overview, some details of the protocol are omitted. The resultant protocol incurs an additive term of  $n^4$ , which is elaborate upon in the technical section.

<span id="page-8-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup>Alternatively, if the number of parties computing the output are already a constant, then even the two round protocol achieves optimal computation.

{9}------------------------------------------------

the key. However, providing a (potentially corrupt) server with the MAC key defeats the purpose, since there is no longer any security. Therefore, for each input share, we shall create MACs with each of the server keys, i.e., one corresponding to each server. These keys are sent to the respective servers, while the input share and all the corresponding MAC tags are sent only to the designated server. The functionality computed by the protocol  $\Pi$  is modified to first check if for each input share that it gets as input, all its corresponding MACs are valid. As long as there is an honest party, for which the adversary does not have access to the key, it cannot create a mauled tag that will verify with that key. We use the helper protocols exactly as described earlier with the only exception that now instead of just their input shares, the clients also communicate these MACs and MAC keys to the servers via the helper protocol.

To implement a maliciously secure committee election protocol, we use the following standard techniques:

- Using VRFs: We use the strategy from Algorand [GHM<sup>+</sup>17] based on verifiable random functions (VRFs) [MRV99]. This is implemented in the reusable<sup>8</sup> correlated randomness model where the adversarial corruption may happen after the setup. We note that since VRFs are known from non-interactive witness indistinguishability proofs (NIWIs) [Bit17, GHKW17], we get a resulting maliciously secure two-round protocol in the correlated randomness model based on NIWI, whose communication complexity is  $\tilde{O}(W(\text{polylog}(n), s) + n^{\tau+4})$  and total computation complexity is  $\tilde{O}(nW(\text{polylog}(n), s) + n^{\tau+5})$ .
- Feige's Lightest Bin Protocol [Fei99]: This gives a statistically secure committee election protocol. However each party learns whether or not it is in the committee only at the end of this protocol, so it adds another round at the start of the two-round protocol. As a result we get a three-round maliciously secure protocol in the plain model, whose communication complexity is  $\tilde{O}(W(\text{polylog}(n), s) + n^{\tau+4})$  and total computation complexity is  $\tilde{O}(nW(\text{polylog}(n), s) + n^{\tau+5})$ .

Comparison with Existing Maliciously Secure Compilers: By applying our compiler on the most asymptotically efficient MPC protocols [GIP15, DIK+08, DIK10] with total computation cost  $W(n,s) = \tilde{O}(s+nd)$ , we obtain a two-round protocol with total communication and per-party computation cost  $\tilde{O}(s+n^{\tau+4})$ . In contrast, applying previous maliciously secure compilers on the same protocols yields two-round protocols with total communication and per-party computation cost  $\tilde{O}(n^{\tau} \cdot s + n^{\tau+1}d + n^{\tau+2})$ , where  $\tau > 2$ .

#### <span id="page-9-0"></span>1.2.2 Impossibility of Balanced Protocols

While our approach gives an efficiency preserving compiler in 3 rounds, a drawback of our compiler is that it yields unbalanced protocols with sub-optimal corruption threshold of t < n/2. This is a consequence of our committee-based approach. Next, we provide some evidence towards the fact that a committee-based approach is necessary. In particular, we show that it is impossible to obtain a constant round MPC protocol with equal division of labor, where the total work done by parties is  $\tilde{O}(|C|)$ , where |C| is the size of the circuit implementing the functionality. We show this impossibility using the player emulation methodology [HM00, CDI<sup>+</sup>13, IKOS09]. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that this paradigm is used for proving a negative result.

Let us assume that there exists an r-round MPC protocol  $\Pi$ , where the total work done by each party is approximately  $\tilde{O}(|C|)/n$ , where r is some constant. In other words, the size (and depth) of the circuit implementing the next-message function of each party is  $\tilde{O}(|C|)/n$ . In every round, we can recursively use protocol  $\Pi$  to implement the next-message function of each party. The total number of rounds in the resulting protocol is  $r^2$ , while the total work done by each party in each round is still  $\tilde{O}(|C|)/n$ , it can now be computed using n-parallel circuits each of depth  $\tilde{O}(|C|)/n^2$ .

<span id="page-9-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>8</sup>A simpler solution using non-reusable correlated randomness can be obtained using regular digital signatures which are known from one-way functions.

<span id="page-9-2"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>9</sup>As for the semi-honest setting, the additive term will be elaborated upon in the technical sections.

{10}------------------------------------------------

If we repeat this approach of recursively replacing the next-message function of each party in each round with an execution of  $\Pi$  for k iterations, we get a protocol with  $r^k$  rounds where in each round, the next message function of each party can be computed using a circuit of depth  $\tilde{O}(|C|)/n^k$ . Let k,c be constants such that  $\tilde{O}(|C|)/n^k=c$ . In each round the total computation done by the parties can be viewed as an execution of n-parallel circuits, each of depth at most c. Overall, the total work done by the parties in the final protocol, can be viewed as an execution of n-parallel circuits, each of depth at most  $c \cdot r^k = O(1)$ .

This approach can be used to reduce any arbitrary-depth circuit C into a constant-depth circuit, which is a contradiction since we know that functions like parity are not computable in constant depth.

#### <span id="page-10-0"></span>1.3 Related Work

The study of multiparty computation was initiated in the seminal works of [Yao86, GMW87, BGW88, CCD88]. Beaver et al. [BMR90] initiated the study of constant round protocols in the honest majority setting. Subsequently, there has been extensive work in the study of constant round protocols, resulting in round optimal protocols both in the honest majority and dishonest majority settings [GGHR14, GS18, BL18, ACGJ18, ABT18, GIS18, ACGJ19, ABT19].

Further, the design of efficient protocols have been studied in both the computational and information theoretic settings [DI06, HN06, DN07, DIK<sup>+</sup>08, DIK10, DKMS12, ZMS14, SZ15, BCP15, DKM<sup>+</sup>17]. Some of these results [DIK<sup>+</sup>08, DIK10] achieve optimal computational and communication complexity of  $\tilde{O}(s)$ . Similar to us, their results also have an additive factors which are polynomial in both the security parameter and number of parties.

Committee based techniques have been used primarily in the context of scalable computation, where the goal is to build secure computation protocols that scale well with a large number of parties. Of these, the works of [SZ15, BCP15, ZMS14, BGT13, DKMS14] seek to reduce computational and communication complexity work in the large round setting. See [SZ15] and the references therein for for a detailed survey of the use of committee based techniques in the context of scalable computation. To the best of our knowledge no prior works apply committee based approaches in the two round setting. This is perhaps unsurprising given the recency of the two round protocols based on standard assumptions.

# <span id="page-10-1"></span>2 Two-Round Efficiency Preserving Compiler in the Client-Server Model

In order to describe our compiler in a manner that easily extends to the malicious setting, we will present our solution in two steps, spread across Sections 2 and 3. In this section, we construct a maliciously secure efficiency preserving, round compression compiler in the Client-Server model (see Section A.1 for definition). Recall that in the client-server model, every party is designated to be either a client or a server, and is additionally aware of the roles of all the other parties. The clients share their inputs among all the servers (servers may additionally have inputs), who in turn do the computation and broadcast the result. Later in Section 3, we will show how this protocol in the client-server model can be extended to obtain an efficiency preserving compiler in the *plain model*, namely, where the parties do not have any pre-designated roles assigned to them.

The rest of this section is organized as follows. First, we present a two-round *special* MPC with some specific structural properties in Section 2.1. Then in Section 2.2, we make use of the properties of this protocol to present a two-round, maliciously secure, efficiency preserving compiler in the client server model.

### <span id="page-10-2"></span>2.1 Special Two-Round MPC

As discussed in the technical overview, given an interactive protocol with total computation work W, as a starting step, we need to transform it into a two-round *special* MPC protocol that satisfies the following properties:

{11}------------------------------------------------

- 1. **Decomposability**: The first round messages of each party in  $\Pi$  can be decomposed into "light" messages that depend on the input but not W, and "heavy" messages that depend on W but not on the input; however they may share common randomness.
- 2. **Independence:** The private channel messages in  $\Pi$  are independent of the inputs.
- 3. Complexity: The total computation complexity of the resulting protocol should only be linearly dependent on W.

In this section we show how such a protocol can be obtained. Formally, we prove the following Lemma.

<span id="page-11-2"></span>**Lemma 1.** Let  $\lambda$  be the security parameter. There is a round compression compiler that transforms a maliciously (and semi-honest, resp.) secure MPC protocol  $\pi$  for any n-party functionality  $\mathcal F$  into a two-round maliciously (and semi-honest, resp) secure protocol  $\Pi$  for  $\mathcal F$  with the following properties:

- 1. If  $\pi$  tolerates corruption threshold  $\epsilon$ , then  $\Pi$  tolerates  $\epsilon'$ , for arbitrary constants  $\epsilon' < \epsilon < 1/2$ .
- 2. If the computational cost of  $\pi$  is W = W(n, s), where s is the circuit size representation of  $\mathcal{F}$ , then the amortized per-party computational cost of  $\Pi$  is  $O(n^{\tau}W)$  and the per-party communication cost of  $\Pi$  is  $O(n^{\tau-1}W)$ .
- 3. Each party in  $\Pi$  sends messages over both private channels and a broadcast channel in the first round. While in the second round, each party only sends messages over a broadcast channel.
- 4. Each party  $P_i$  in  $\Pi$  broadcasts its masked input  $(x_i \oplus \gamma_i)$  in the first round, where  $x_i$  is its input and  $\gamma_i$  is a random value. The rest of its first round broadcast messages are independent of its input but may depend on  $r_i$ .
- 5. The private channel message of each party  $P_i$  in  $\Pi$  is independent of its input  $x_i$  but may depend on  $r_i$ .

**Special MPC.** As discussed in the technical overview, we observe that any two-round protocol  $\pi$  that satisfies delayed-function property can be transformed into a two-round protocol  $\Pi$  that achieves the structural properties of special MPC. Let  $\mathcal{P} = \{P_1, \dots, P_n\}$  be the set of parties in the system and  $x_1, \dots, x_n$  and  $R_1, \dots, R_n$  be their respective inputs and randomness. The modified protocol  $\Pi$  proceeds as follows:

- **Round 1.** Each party  $P_i$  (for  $i \in [n]$ ) samples a random string  $r_i \leftarrow \{0,1\}^|x_i|$  and computes  $\pi_i^1 \leftarrow \mathsf{NMF}_{\pi}^1(r_i;R_i)$ , where  $\mathsf{NMF}_{\pi}^1(r_i;R_i)$  denotes the first round next message function of  $\pi$  on input  $r_i$  and randomness  $R_i^{10}$ . In addition to sending its broadcast and private channel messages from  $\pi_i^1$ , it also broadcasts  $X_i = x_i \oplus r_i$ .
- Round 2. Each party  $P_i$  (for  $i \in [n]$ ) computes and sends

$$\pi_i^2 \leftarrow \mathsf{NMF}_{\pi}^2(\mathcal{F}_{X_1,...,X_n}, r_i, \pi_1^1, \dots, \pi_n^1; R_i),$$

where  $\mathsf{NMF}^2_\pi(\mathcal{F}_{X_1,\ldots,X_n},r_i,\pi^1_1,\ldots,\pi^1_n;R_i)$  denotes the second round next message function of  $\pi$  on input  $r_i$ , first round transcript  $\pi^1_1,\ldots,\pi^1_n$  and randomness  $R_i$ , for the MPC functionality  $\mathcal{F}_{X_1,\ldots,X_n}$  defined as:

$$\mathcal{F}_{X_1,\ldots,X_n}(r_1,\ldots,r_n)=\mathcal{F}(x_1,\ldots,x_n),$$

where  $\mathcal{F}$  is the original functionality that  $\Pi$  computes.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Remark 1.** If  $\pi$  makes use of private channel messages in the second round, then the parties additionally exchange random pads of appropriate length with each other in the first round and then broadcast their second round messages encrypted under these one-time pads.

<span id="page-11-1"></span>Note that since  $\pi$  satisfies the delayed-function property, its first first round next message function is independent of the MPC functionality.

{12}------------------------------------------------

It is easy to see that π satisfies the last three properties listed in Lemma [1.](#page-11-2) Since the above transformation works for any two-round protocol with delayed-function property, π can be instantiated with a delayed-function version of [\[ABT18,](#page-30-1) [ABT19,](#page-30-2) [ACGJ18\]](#page-30-0). While [\[ACGJ18\]](#page-30-0) already satisfies the delayed function property, the tworound compilers of [\[ABT18,](#page-30-1) [ABT19\]](#page-30-2) do not. We observe that the compilers of [\[ABT18,](#page-30-1) [ABT19\]](#page-30-2) can be made to satisfy the delayed function property without compromising its efficiency (which we discuss next). Moreover, since these compilers already achieve total computation complexity proportional to O(n <sup>τ</sup>+1W), instantiating π with the output of these compilers will yield a two-round protocol Π that satisfies all the 5 properties listed in Lemma [1.](#page-11-2)

Delayed-Function Version of [\[ABT18,](#page-30-1) [ABT19\]](#page-30-2). We first suggest a small modification to [\[ABT18,](#page-30-1) [ABT19\]](#page-30-2) that yields two-round protocols with delayed-function property. Given an interactive protocol π, recall that in these compilers, the parties collectively compute a point and permute garbling of the circuit representing the entire transcript of π. Such a compiler can be easily transformed into one that satisfies the delayed function property by having the parties garble a universal circuit instead. This universal circuit[11](#page-12-1) takes as input the functionality of MPC and then executes π accordingly. In order to compute input-wire keys corresponding to the functionality, each party can simply secret share both its wire keys (for bit 0 and 1) for the input wires corresponding to the functionality in the first round. Later, upon learning the functionality in the second round, the parties can use appropriate input wire keys corresponding to the functionality and discard the remaining keys. For a boolean circuit, this only adds a constant multiplicative overhead, and does not affect the overall asymptotic complexity.

Remark 2. *We note that we consider the computation of functions represented by circuits consisting of AND, OR and NOT gates.*

## <span id="page-12-0"></span>2.2 From Special MPC to Efficiency Preserving Compiler in the Client-Server Model

Now that we have a two-round protocol Π with the desired structural properties from Lemma [1,](#page-11-2) we use it to present a two-round maliciously secure, efficiency preserving compiler in the client-server model. Since our protocol works in the client server model, for ease of presentation we use indices with different fonts for referring to specific servers and clients: i ∈ n for servers (double-struck) and i ∈ n for clients (bold).

Protocol Overview. At a high level, given n servers and n clients, where n + n = n, the semi-honest protocol works as follows. Each client generates n additive secret shares of its input - one for each server. The servers then engage in a single execution of the two round protocol Π to compute the function. But recall that the servers are not in possession of the shares of the client inputs at the start of this protocol execution and waiting for shares before continuing with the execution of Π would render it impossible to complete the overall computation in two rounds. In order to overcome this, the servers delegate the computation of their second round message to a garbled circuit. This garbled circuit has all the partially computed first round messages that are independent of the clients' inputs hardwired in it, and additionally takes the input shares of all the clients as input.

Therefore, to parallelize their computation, instead of sending their shares directly to each server, the clients engage in a two round helper protocol Πhelp with *all* the other servers to enable transferring of shares. Since the second round computation is done via a garbled circuit, the helper protocol Πhelp computes the input wire labels for this circuit corresponding to the input shares of the clients. As discussed in the technical overview, for security against malicious adversaries, we must prevent a malicious server from modifying the input shares of an honest client. To do so, we need to add some form of consistency checks in the protocol Π to make sure that an adversarial server cannot maul the input share of an honest client. We make use of one-time message authentication codes (MACs) to enforce these consistency checks. So, in addition to secret sharing their inputs, the clients compute n MAC's on each of their shares using a different MAC key. All the MACs corresponding to a particular input

<span id="page-12-1"></span><sup>11</sup>We slightly abuse terminology here. By universal circuit, we mean a slightly modified circuit representing π that takes the functionality as input.

{13}------------------------------------------------

share are sent to the recipient server, while the other servers get a key for one of these MACs. The functionality computed by the protocol  $\pi$  first checks if for each input share that it gets as input, all its corresponding MACs are valid. Only if this check succeeds, does it start computing on them. Intuitively, the reason why this approach works is because an adversary only controls a minority of the servers, and hence it is never in possession of all the  $\mathbf n$  keys for any of honest client's input share. Thus, except with some negligible probability, it cannot forge all the  $\mathbf n$  MACs on a message of its choice. This prevents the adversary from potentially changing the input share of an honest client. We use the helper protocol  $\Pi_{\text{help}}$  exactly as described earlier with the only exception that now instead of just their input shares, the clients also communicate these MACs and MAC keys to the servers via the helper protocol.

Formally, we prove the following theorem. In this theorem we also enlist additional properties achieved by our resulting protocol. These properties are crucially used by our compiler in Section 3 to obtain an efficiency preserving compiler in the plain model. We refer the reader to Section 3 for a detailed discussion on the relevance of these properties.

<span id="page-13-1"></span>**Theorem 2.** Let n be the number of parties and  $\lambda$  be the security parameter. Assuming one-way functions, there is a round compression compiler that transforms a maliciously (and semi-honest, resp.) secure MPC protocol  $\Pi$  for any n-input functionality  $\mathcal{F}$  into a two-round maliciously (and semi-honestly, resp.) secure protocol  $\Phi$  for  $\mathcal{F}$  in the client-server model with the following properties:

- 1. Let m be the number of servers and n = n m be the number of clients. If the computational cost of  $\pi$  is W = W(n,s), where s is the circuit size representation of  $\mathcal{F}$ , then the amortized per-party computational cost and total communication of maliciously (and semi-honest, resp.) secure protocol  $\Phi$  is  $\widetilde{O}(W(n,s) + n^{\tau+4})$ , (and  $\widetilde{O}(W(n,s) + n^4)$ , resp.), where the  $\widetilde{O}$  notation suppresses suppresses polynomial factors in  $\lambda$  and m.
- 2. If  $\pi$  tolerates corruption threshold  $\epsilon$ , then  $\Phi$  tolerates  $\epsilon'$ , for arbitrary constants  $\epsilon' < \epsilon < 1/2$  corruptions in the server set and  $\epsilon$  corruptions in the client set.
- 3. Each party can send messages over both private channels and a broadcast channel in the first round in  $\Phi$ . While in the second round, each party only sends messages over a broadcast channel.
- 4. The private channel messages sent by clients in  $\Phi$  are independent of the role (client/server) of the receiving party in the protocol.
- 5. The total length of messages sent by all clients is  $O(n^2n^3\lambda^3)$  in the semi-honest case and  $\widetilde{O}(n^{\tau-1}n^3n^3\lambda^3+m^3n^{\tau+1}\lambda)$  in the malicious case.
- 6. The private channel messages sent by servers in  $\Phi$  can be divided into messages that are independent of the role (client/server) of the receiving party and ones that are specifically intended for other server parties.
- 7. The total length of messages sent by all servers in  $\Phi$  is  $O(\mathbb{n}^4 n \mathbb{n} \lambda^3 + \mathbb{n}^{\tau+1} W \lambda)$  in the semi-honest case and  $\widetilde{O}(n^{\tau-1} \mathbb{n}^5 \mathbb{n} \lambda^3 + \mathbb{n}^3 \mathbb{n} n^{\tau+1} \lambda) + \mathbb{n}^{\tau+1} W \lambda$  in the malicious case.

We now give a constructive proof of theorem 2 using the protocol described below.

#### <span id="page-13-0"></span>2.2.1 Construction

We start by establishing some notations that will be used throughout this section.

**Notations.** We use various underlying protocols for different functionalities in our construction. We use  $\Pi_X$  to denote the underlying protocol used for computing functionality  $\mathcal{F}_X$ . The  $r^{\text{th}}$  next message function of protocol  $\Pi_X$  is denoted by  $\Pi_X^r$ . We use multiple instantiations of these underlying protocols. In the  $r^{th}$  round of the  $y^{\text{th}}$ 

{14}------------------------------------------------

instantiation of  $\Pi_X$ , we use  $M_X^{r,y}[\dot{\mathbf{i}},\dot{\mathbf{j}}]$  to the message that server i sends to client j and  $M_X^{r,y}[\dot{\mathbf{i}}]$  denotes the message that it broadcasts.  $\mathbf{I}_X^y[\dot{\mathbf{i}}]$  denotes the input of server i in the  $y^{\text{th}}$  instantiation of  $\Pi_X$ . Often times, we replace some indices in the above notations with symbols such as  $\bullet, \diamond$  or \* to denote a set. For instance  $M_X^{r,y}[\dot{\mathbf{i}},\bullet] = \{M_X^{r,y}[\dot{\mathbf{i}},\dot{\mathbf{j}}]\}_{\dot{\mathbf{j}}\in\mathbf{n}}$ . Similarly,  $\diamond$  is used to denote all servers and \* is used for referring to all clients and all parties respective. The collection of labels (of a garbled circuit) are denoted as  $\overline{\mathsf{lab}} \coloneqq \{\mathsf{lab}_{i,0}, \mathsf{lab}_{i,0}\}_{i\in[L]}$ . Projection of a string of  $c \in \{0,1,\bot\}^L$  is defined as Projection $(c,\overline{\mathsf{lab}}) = \{\mathsf{lab}_{i,c[i]}\}_{i\in[L]}$ , where  $\mathsf{lab}_{i,\bot}$  is defined to be  $\bot$ . The output of Projection is treated as a string. For convenience, we also specify that  $\bot$  under the XOR operation remains unchanged. Specifically,  $\forall b \in \{0,1\}$ ,  $b \oplus \bot = \bot$ . Wherever necessary, we augment the protocol description with comments denoted as //comment.

Next, we list the building blocks used in our construction.

**Building Blocks.** The main primitives required in this construction for computing an n-input functionality  $\mathcal{F}$  are the following:

- 1. An unconditionally secure message authentication scheme (MAC, Verify) as described in Section A.4.
- 2. A two-round protocol  $\Pi_{\text{aug}}$  [ABT19] for n parties output by the compiler in Lemma 1, for the function  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{aug}}$  defined in Figure 1.

```
Function: \mathcal{F}_{\mathrm{aug}}

Parties: \mathbf{n} parties P_1, \cdots, P_n.

Inputs: Each party has input

X_i := x_i || \left\{ x[\mathbf{j}, i] || \left\{ \mathsf{tag}_{\mathbf{j} \to i}^{\ell} \right\}_{\ell \in [n]} || \left\{ \mathsf{k}_{\mathbf{j} \to \ell}^{i} \right\}_{\mathbf{j} \in [n]} \right\}

Output:
- \ \forall i, \ell \in [n], \mathbf{j} \in [n], \text{ check if}

Verify \left( x[\mathbf{j}, i], \mathsf{tag}_{\mathbf{j} \to i}^{\ell}, \mathsf{k}_{\mathbf{j} \to i}^{\ell} \right) = 1

If all checks verify, set x_{\mathbf{j}} := \bigoplus_{i=1}^n x[\mathbf{j}, i], \text{ output} := \mathcal{F}\left( \left\{ x_i \right\}_{i \in [n]}, \left\{ x_{\mathbf{j}} \right\}_{\mathbf{j} \in [n]} \right)

- Else, if any of the checks failed, set output to be \bot.

Return output.
```

<span id="page-14-0"></span>Figure 1: The augmented function  $\mathcal{F}_{aug}$ 

 $\mathcal{F}_{\text{aug}}$  takes inputs from n parties, and parses each input as: (1)its own input; (2) input shares (from parties not involved in the computation of  $\mathcal{F}'$ ); (3) MAC tags for each share; (4) MAC keys to verify tags.<sup>12</sup>

Upon aggregation the functionality checks if *all* the MAC tags verify. If the verification succeeds, input shares are used to reconstruct inputs of the parties not involved in the computation. Output the result on evaluating  $\mathcal{F}$  on the inputs (both parties' own and reconstructed).

**Remark 3.** Throughout this work, B will be used to denote broadcast messages.

- 3. A Garbled Circuit scheme  $GC = \{Gen, Garb, Eval\}$  as described in Section A.2, based on one-way functions.
- 4. A two-round maliciously secure honest majority protocol [ABT19]  $\Pi_{help}$  computing function  $\mathcal{F}_{help}$ , which helps the client select labels, of a garbled circuit, corresponding to its input share.

<span id="page-14-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>12</sup>The MAC keys correspond to tags held by other parites.

{15}------------------------------------------------

```
Function: \mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{help}}

Parties: Clients \mathcal{C} = \{C_1, \cdots, C_n\} and servers \mathcal{S} = \{S_1, \cdots, S_n\}
Inputs:

- Client C_{\mathbf{i}} (called sender) has input x_{\mathbf{i}}.

- Server S_{\mathbb{j}} (called receiver) has input \gamma_{\mathbb{j}} and \left\{y_{w,0}^{\mathbb{j}}, y_{w,1}^{\mathbb{j}}\right\}_{w \in [|x_{\mathbf{i}}|]}.

- Each server S_{\mathbb{k}} \in \mathcal{S} \setminus \{S_{\mathbb{j}}\} (called label\ receiver) has input \left\{y_{w,0}^{\mathbb{k}}, y_{w,1}^{\mathbb{k}}\right\}_{w \in [|x_{\mathbf{i}}|]}.

- Each client C_{\mathbf{k}} \in \mathcal{C} \setminus \{C_{\mathbf{i}}\}, (called helper) has no input.

Output: \forall S_{\mathbb{k}} \in \mathcal{S}, set \mathsf{out}_{\mathsf{help}}^{\mathbb{k}} = \mathsf{Projection}(x_{\mathbf{i}}[w] \oplus \gamma_{\mathbb{j}}[w], \left\{y_{w,0}^{\mathbb{k}}, y_{w,1}^{\mathbb{k}}\right\}_{w \in [|x_{\mathbf{i}}|]}). Output \mathsf{out}_{\mathsf{help}} \coloneqq \{\mathsf{out}_{\mathsf{help}}^{\mathbb{k}}\}_{\mathbb{k} \in [n]} to all parties.
```

Figure 2: The function  $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{help}}$ 

 $\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{help}}$  separates out its participants into two sets, clients and servers. In addition, it designates two special parties: client  $C_{\mathbf{i}}$ , and server  $S_{\mathbb{j}}$ .  $C_{\mathbf{i}}$  provides input  $x_{\mathbf{i}}$ , and  $S_{\mathbb{j}}$  provides input  $\gamma_{\mathbb{j}}$ . Additionally, all servers (including  $S_{\mathbb{j}}$ ) provide as input labels to a garbled circuit. The other clients do not have any inputs. The functionality outputs to all parties the projection of the labels corresponding to  $x_{\mathbf{i}} \oplus \gamma_{\mathbb{j}}$ . Since the parties have asymmetric roles, the next message function of this protocol additionally takes one of these labels as input (sen, rec, lrec, hel) to specify the exact role of the party.

**Protocol.** For each  $i \in [n]$ , server i has input  $x_i$  and for each  $i \in [n]$ , client i has input  $x_i$ . For simplicity we assume that each these inputs are of length 1. Our protocol easily extends to the setting with longer inputs. We assume that every party samples a sufficiently long random string at the start of the protocol, which is used appropriately throughout the protocol. Therefore we remove the randomness from protocol description and assume that it is implicit in all the algorithms used in the protocol.

```
Round 1. Each client C_i for i \in |\mathbf{n}| computes the following:
  1. Computes n additive shares of x_i: \bigoplus_{j=1}^n x[i,j] = x_i
 2. Authentication tags for each share: \forall j, \ell \in [n], sample \mathsf{k}^{\ell}_{\mathbf{i} \to j} \leftarrow \$\{0,1\}^{\lambda} and compute \mathsf{tag}^{\ell}_{\mathbf{i} \to j} \coloneqq \mathsf{MAC}(\mathsf{k}^{\ell}_{\mathbf{i} \to j}, x[\mathbf{i}, j]).
  3. Aggregate inputs: \forall j \in [n], I_{\mathsf{help}}[\mathbf{i}, j] \coloneqq x[\mathbf{i}, j] \circ \{\mathsf{tag}_{\mathbf{i} \to i}^{\ell}\}_{\ell \in [n]} \circ \{\mathsf{k}_{\mathbf{i} \to \ell}^{j}\}_{\ell \in [n]}
 4. First round of \Pi_{help}:
        (a) \forall j \in [n]: (\mathbf{i}, j)-th instance as sender, M_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{i}, j)}[\mathbf{i}, *] \leftarrow \Pi_{\mathsf{help}}^{1}(\mathbf{i}, \mathsf{sen}, I_{\mathsf{help}}[\mathbf{i}, j])
        (b) \forall \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}] \setminus \{\mathbf{i}\}, k \in [\mathbf{n}]: (\mathbf{j}, k)-th instance as helper, M_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, k)}[\mathbf{i}, *] \leftarrow \Pi_{\mathsf{help}}^{1}(\mathbf{i}, \mathsf{hel}, \bot)
 5. \forall j \in [n], send M_{\text{help}}^{1,(\bullet,\diamond)}[i,j] to server S_{j}.
 6. \forall \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}], send M_{\mathsf{help}}^{1,(\bullet,\diamond)}[\mathbf{i},\mathbf{j}] to client C_{\mathbf{j}}.
Each server S_i for i \in [n] computes the following:
  1. Sets I_{\mathsf{aug}}[\dot{\mathfrak{1}}] := x_{\dot{\mathfrak{1}}} \circ I_{\mathsf{help}}[\bullet, \dot{\mathfrak{1}}], where I_{\mathsf{help}}[\bullet, \dot{\mathfrak{1}}] = \bot of appropriate length.
        //This indicates the missing inputs that are contributed by the clients.
  2. Computes first round messages of \Pi with random mask \gamma_{i} \leftarrow \$ \{0,1\}^{|\mathtt{I}_{\mathsf{aug}}[i]|} : \left( (\mathtt{I}_{\mathsf{aug}}[i] \oplus \gamma_{i}), \mathtt{M}_{\mathsf{aug}}^{1}[i,\diamond], \mathtt{M}_{\mathsf{aug}}^{1}[i] \right) \leftarrow
        \Pi^1_{\mathsf{aug}}(\mathbf{i}, \mathtt{I}_{\mathsf{aug}}[\mathbf{i}], \gamma_{\mathbf{i}})
  3. Samples wire labels for a garbled circuit: \overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{i}[\bullet, \diamond] \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda}).
 4. First round of \Pi_{help}:
```

{16}------------------------------------------------

```
(a) \forall \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}]: (\mathbf{j}, \mathbf{i})-th instance as receiver, set \mathbf{I}_{\mathsf{help}}^{(\mathbf{j}, \mathbf{i})}[\mathbf{i}] = \gamma_{\mathbf{i}|\mathbf{j}} \circ \overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{\mathbf{i}}[\mathbf{j}, \mathbf{i}] and computes \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbf{i})}[\mathbf{i}, *] \leftarrow
                                         \Pi^1_{\mathsf{help}}\left(\dot{\mathtt{i}},\mathsf{rec},\mathtt{I}^{(\mathbf{j},\dot{\mathtt{i}})}_{\mathsf{help}}[\dot{\mathtt{i}}]\right)
                                        //\gamma_{i|j} denotes the part of \gamma_i that is used to mask input I_{aug}[i,j].
                   (b) \forall \mathbb{k} \in [n] \setminus \{i\}, \mathbf{j} \in [n]: (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})^{th} \text{ instance as } label \ receiver, \text{ set } \mathbf{I}_{\mathsf{help}}^{(\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] = \overline{\mathsf{lab}}_i[\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k}] \text{ and computes } \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i, *] \leftarrow \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[i] + \mathbf{M}
                                         \Pi^1_{\mathsf{help}}\left(\mathbf{i},\mathsf{Irec},\mathsf{I}^{(\mathbf{j},\Bbbk)}_{\mathsf{help}}[\mathbf{i}]\right)
    5. \forall j \in [n], send M_{\mathsf{help}}^{1,(\bullet,\diamond)}[i,j], M_{\mathsf{aug}}^{1}[i,j] to server S_{j}
    6. \forall \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}], send \mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1,(\bullet,\diamond)}[\mathbf{i},\mathbf{j}] to client C_{\mathbf{j}}.
    7. Broadcast M^1[i] := (M^1_{\text{aug}}[i], (I_{\text{aug}}[i] \oplus \gamma_i))
Round 2.
        - Each client C_{\mathbf{i}} for \mathbf{i} \in [\mathbf{n}] computes and broadcasts second round messages of \Pi_{\mathsf{help}}: \forall \mathbb{k} \in [\mathbf{n}], \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}], (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})-th instance:
                   \mathtt{M}^{2,(\mathbf{j},\Bbbk)}_{\mathsf{help}}[\mathbf{i}] \leftarrow \Pi^2_{\mathsf{help}}\left(\mathbf{i},\mathtt{M}^{1,(\mathbf{j},\Bbbk)}_{\mathsf{help}}[*,\mathbf{i}]\right)
      - Each server S_i for i \in [n]:
                          1. Second round of \Pi_{\mathsf{help}} : \forall \mathbb{k} \in [\mathbb{n}], \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbb{n}] \ (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})-th instance: computes M_{\mathsf{help}}^{2, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})} [\mathbb{i}] \leftarrow \Pi_{\mathsf{help}}^2 \left( \mathbb{i}, M_{\mathsf{help}}^{1, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})} [*, \mathbb{i}] \right)
                          2. Garbled circuit: sets \mathsf{ckt}_{\mathtt{i}} \coloneqq \mathsf{P}\left[\mathtt{i}, \mathtt{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\diamond], \mathtt{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\diamond,\mathtt{i}], \{(\mathtt{I}_{\mathsf{aug}}[\mathtt{j}] \oplus \gamma_{\mathtt{j}})\}_{\mathtt{j} \in [\mathtt{n}]}\right] and computes \tilde{\mathsf{P}}_{\mathtt{i}}
                                          Garb (P_i, \overline{\mathsf{lab}}_i[\bullet, \diamond]), where program P is as defined in figure 3.
                          3. Broadcast \left(\mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{2,(\bullet,\diamond)}[i], \tilde{\mathsf{P}}_{i}\right)
Output Computation. Each every client and server computes the following:
     1. Output of \Pi_{\mathsf{help}} : \forall \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}], \mathbb{k} \in [\mathbf{n}] \ \mathsf{lab}_{\mathbb{i}}[\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k}] \coloneqq \Pi^3_{\mathsf{help}} \left( \mathsf{M}_{\mathsf{help}, (\mathbf{j}, \mathbb{k})}[*] \right)
     2. Evaluate garbled circuits: \forall i \in [n], M_{\mathsf{aug}}^2[i] \coloneqq \mathsf{Eval}(\tilde{\mathsf{P}}_i, \widetilde{\mathsf{lab}}_i[\diamond, \bullet])
     3. Output of \Pi, y := \Pi^3_{\mathsf{aug}}(\mathsf{M}^2_{\mathsf{aug}}[\diamond])
```

```
\begin{aligned} & \text{Program: P} \\ \textbf{Input: } \{ \textbf{I}_{\mathsf{help}}[\textbf{k}, \mathbb{j}] \oplus \gamma_{\mathbb{j}|\textbf{k}} \}_{\textbf{k} \in [\textbf{n}], \mathbb{j} \in [\textbf{n}]} \\ & \textbf{Hardcoded: } \textbf{i}, \textbf{M}_{\mathsf{aug}}^1[\lozenge], \textbf{M}_{\mathsf{aug}}^1[\lozenge, \mathbb{i}], \{ (\textbf{I}_{\mathsf{aug}}[\mathbb{j}] \oplus \gamma_{\mathbb{j}}) \}_{\mathbb{j} \in [\textbf{n}]} \\ & \textbf{Function:} \\ & - \text{ For each } \mathbb{j} \in [\textbf{n}], \text{ update } \textbf{I}_{\mathsf{aug}}[\mathbb{j}] \oplus \gamma_{\mathbb{j}} \text{ with values } \{ \textbf{I}_{\mathsf{help}}[\textbf{k}, \mathbb{j}] \oplus \gamma_{\mathbb{j}|\textbf{k}} \}_{\textbf{k} \in [\textbf{n}]}. \\ & - \text{ Compute and output the second round messages using these updated values of the first round.} \\ & & \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad \qquad
```

<span id="page-16-0"></span>4. Output y.

Figure 3

**Semi Honest Protocol.** We note that for the semi-honest variant of the above protocol, the MAC checks are no longer needed. Therefore,  $\mathcal{F}_{help}$  can be simplified. The rest of the protocol remains the same, except that we can instantiate the underlying protocols used in this protocol with their semi-honest variants.

**Complexity.** Note that there are  $\mathbf{n} \cdot \mathbf{n}$  instances of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}}$ . Given that  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}}$  implements a quadratic functionality,

{17}------------------------------------------------

the resulting circuit computed by each instance has size O(λ 2 · n 2 ). Also, each instance is run by all n parties. Importantly, the circuit size is independent of s, size of circuit representing the underlying protocol. There is also a single instance of Πaug computing a circuit of size s with n parties. From the described properties of the underlying protocols, this gives us a protocol with the desired complexity. The details of the exact calculations are presented in Appendix [B.](#page-36-2)

### <span id="page-17-0"></span>2.2.2 Proof of Security

We denote by A both the adversary and set the adversarial parties. H denotes the set of honest parties.

We assume that the security parameter 1 λ is an implicit parameter, and do not specify it explicitly. Additionally, we define the following functions and describe briefly their purpose:

- sanitize: From Lemma [1,](#page-11-2) we know that the underlying protocol requires broadcasting masked inputs in the first round. But in our use case, the party attempting to broadcast this, is not aware of its entire input in the first round, although completely determined by the other protocols that are additionally run. When we run the simulator of the underlying protocol, it simulates masked inputs for all input bits independent of our usage of the protocol. Thus, when we pass it along to the adversary, we need to replace positions corresponding to the masked inputs that it is unaware of by ⊥ (as in the real protocol). The sanitize function takes the broadcast messages output by the simulator and "sanitizes" the output by replacing appropriate positions by ⊥. This can then be sent to the adversary.
- fillIn: As above, when the adversary of the overall protocol sends the broadcast message, due to the protocol specification, the adversary's broadcast messages will contain ⊥ in positions that its input is unknown. But this cannot be fed in as such into the simulator of the underlying protocol, since the underlying protocol expects a complete broadcast message without ⊥. We've already stated that even though the party is unaware of its input, the input is completely determined by the first round messages of the other protocols. We extract the masked inputs from the other protocols, and replace the ⊥ in the adversarial broadcast messages by the corresponding masked inputs. The fillIn functions takes the broadcast message and the masked inputs and replaces the appropriate positions with the masked inputs.
- extractMasked: Although we "sanitized" the broadcast prior to sending to the adversary, we require these masked inputs at a later point during simulation. The function extractMasked takes the first round broadcast message, and an index i to return the masked input that the party receives from party i.

We note that all of the above are deterministic procedures that run in polynomial time.

The simulator for the underlying protocol, garbled circuit and Fhelp is denoted by Simaug, SimGC and SimΠhelp respectively.

Simulator. We describe the simulator below.

## Round 1 Sim → A

- 1. Sample input shares for each i ∈ H and j ∈ A: x[i, j] ← {0, 1}.
- 2. Compute tags for the generated shares. For each i ∈ H, j ∈ A, ` ∈ [n], sample k ` <sup>i</sup>→<sup>j</sup> ←\$ {0, 1} λ and compute tag` i→j := MAC(k ` i→j , x[i, j])
- 3. Aggregate the inputs: For each i ∈ H and j ∈ A, set Ihelp[i, j] := x[i, j] {tag` i→j }`∈[n] ◦ {k j i→` }`∈[n]
- 4. Simulate the first round messages for each instance of Πhelp: ∀i ∈ [n], j ∈ [n], compute M 1,(i,j) help [∗H, ∗A] ← Simhelp(1<sup>λ</sup> , H) and send it to the adversary.

{18}------------------------------------------------

5. Simulate the first round messages for  $\Pi_{faug}$ :  $(M_{aug}^1[\diamond_{\mathcal{H}}], M_{aug}^1[\diamond_{\mathcal{H}}, \bullet_{\mathcal{A}}]) \leftarrow Sim_{aug}(1^{\lambda}, \mathcal{H} \cap \mathcal{S})$ 

We note that while in the protocol description we write the two components (the masked input and the remaining part) of the broadcast message separately. For simplicity, here we assume that  $M_{\text{aug}}^1[\diamond_{\mathcal{H}}]$  represents the both those components.

Since in the overall protocol, a party is not aware of its complete output, multiple positions in the masked input component will contain  $\bot$ . But the underlying simulator generates messages independent of this condition. So we "sanitize" the output generated by  $\mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{aug}}$  by replacing appropriate positions by  $\bot$ . Specifically,  $\forall \mathtt{i} \in \mathcal{H} \cap \mathcal{S}$ , compute  $\mathsf{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\diamondsuit_{\mathcal{H}}] \coloneqq \mathsf{sanitize}(\mathsf{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\diamondsuit_{\mathcal{H}}])$ . Note that this is a deterministic procedure.

6. Send  $M_{\text{aug}}^{1}[\diamondsuit_{\mathcal{H}}]$  and  $M_{\text{aug}}^{1}[\diamondsuit_{\mathcal{H}}, \bullet_{\mathcal{A}}]$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

# $\textbf{Round 1} \ \ \mathcal{A} \rightarrow \mathsf{Sim}$

**Input Extraction.** Feed the messages to the corresponding simulator and extract the following inputs

- 1.  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}} : \forall \mathbf{i} \in [\mathbf{n}], \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}],$ 
  - $-\text{ if }\mathbf{i}\in\mathcal{A}, \text{ extract } \mathbf{I}_{\mathsf{help}}[\mathbf{i},\mathbf{j}] = x[\mathbf{i},\mathbf{j}] \circ \{\mathsf{tag}^{\ell}_{\mathbf{i}\to\mathbf{j}}\}_{\ell\in[\mathtt{n}]} \circ \{\mathsf{k}^{\mathbf{j}}_{\mathbf{i}\to\ell}\}_{\ell\in[\mathtt{n}]}$
  - $\text{ if } \mathbf{j} \in \mathcal{A}, \text{ extract } \gamma_{\mathbf{i}|\mathbf{i}} \circ \overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{\mathbf{j}}[\mathbf{i},\mathbf{j}]$
  - $\ \forall \Bbbk \in \mathcal{A}, extract \ \overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{\Bbbk}[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}]$
- 2.  $\underline{\Pi_{\text{aug}}}$ : Note that like the case of simulating first round messages, the adversary sends first round messages of  $\Pi$  which includes  $\bot$  in various locations. The underlying simulator  $\mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{aug}}$  cannot deal with this, and needs to be appropriately updated. Recall that all the adversarial inputs, even the ones the adversary isn't aware of in the first round, is committed via a combination of protocols. We use the extracted inputs from  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}}$  to "fill in" the missing values. Specifically,  $\forall j \in \mathcal{A}$ , set

$$\mathtt{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\mathtt{j}] \coloneqq \mathsf{fillIn}\left(\widetilde{\mathtt{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\mathtt{j}]}, \gamma_{\mathtt{j}|\bullet}, \mathtt{I}_{\mathsf{help}}[\mathbf{i},\mathtt{j}]\right).$$

Note that  $\gamma_{\hat{j}|\hat{i}\to\hat{j}}$  was extracted in the previous step,  $I_{\mathsf{help}}[\hat{i},\hat{j}]$  for  $\hat{i}\in\mathcal{A}$  is extracted in the previous step and  $I_{\mathsf{help}}[\hat{i},\hat{j}]$  for  $\hat{i}\in\mathcal{H}$  was generated previously.

Now, use  $M_{\text{aug}}^1[j]$  to extract the following inputs:  $\forall j \in \mathcal{A}$ , extract

$$\overline{x}_{j} || \left\{ \widetilde{x}[\mathbf{i}, j] || \left\{ \widetilde{\mathsf{tag}}_{\mathbf{i} \to j}^{\ell} \right\}_{\ell \in [\mathtt{n}]} || \left\{ \widetilde{\mathsf{k}}_{\mathbf{i} \to \ell}^{j} \right\}_{\ell \in [\mathtt{n}]} \right\}_{\mathbf{i} \in [\mathtt{n}]}$$

We note that the extracted values can potentially be different from the sent values.

**Check**  $\mathcal{A}$  **computation.** Using the extracted inputs, we perform the following checks to ensure that  $\mathcal{A}$ 's inputs do not lead  $\mathcal{F}_{aug}$  to abort.

- We perform a special check to ensure that  $\mathcal{A}$  has not managed to maul any of the honest party inputs such that the MACs verify. Specifically, check if  $\exists j \in \mathcal{A}, i \in \mathcal{H}$  such that
  - 1. the shares extract and the ones sent are different:  $\tilde{x}[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}] \neq x[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}]$ ; and

{19}------------------------------------------------

2. all the corresponding MACs verify:  $\forall \ell \in [n]$ ,

$$\mathsf{Verify}\left(\widetilde{x}[\mathbf{i},\mathbb{j}],\widetilde{\mathsf{k}}_{\mathbf{i}\to\mathbb{j}}^\ell,\widetilde{\mathsf{tag}}_{\mathbf{i}\to\mathbb{j}}^\ell\right)=1$$

where  $\widetilde{k}_{i \to j}^{\ell}$  is the honest key  $k_{i \to j}^{\ell}$ .

If above conditions are met, then we output a special abort symbol  $\perp_{MAC}$  and stop simulation.

– check if all the MACs verify. Specifically, check if  $\exists j \in \mathcal{A}, i \in [n], \ell \in [n]$  such that

$$\mathsf{Verify}\left(\widetilde{x}[\mathbf{i},\mathbb{j}],\widetilde{\mathsf{k}}_{\mathbf{i}\to\mathbb{j}}^\ell,\widetilde{\mathsf{tag}}_{\mathbf{i}\to\mathbb{j}}^\ell\right) \neq 1$$

If the above condition is met, then we set the output  $y^* := \bot$ .

– else, send inputs to the ideal functionality  $\mathcal{F}$  by appropriately combining input shares of the clients prior to sending. Set the returned value to be  $y^*$ .

## **Round 2.** Sim $\rightarrow \mathcal{A}$

1. Simulate the second round messages of  $\Pi$ :

$$\mathbf{M}^2_{\mathsf{aug}}[\diamond_{\mathcal{H}}] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{aug}}(1^{\lambda}, \mathcal{H}, y^*, \mathbf{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\diamond_{\mathcal{A}}, \diamond_{\mathcal{H}}], \mathbf{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\diamond_{\mathcal{A}}])$$

Note that we need to provide the simulator the filled in first round messages of the protocol, previously computed.

- 2. Simulate the garbled circuit  $\forall i \in \mathcal{H}, \left(\tilde{\mathsf{P}}_i, \; \widetilde{\mathsf{lab}}_i[\bullet, \diamond]\right) \leftarrow \mathsf{GC}.\mathsf{Sim}\left(1^\lambda, \mathtt{M}^2_{\mathsf{aug}}[i]\right) \; \mathsf{send} \; \tilde{\mathsf{P}}_i \; \mathsf{to} \; \mathcal{A}.$
- 3. Set the output for  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}}$ .  $\forall \mathbf{i} \in [\mathbf{n}], \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}]$ :

$$- \text{ if } \mathbf{j} \in \mathcal{A},$$
 
$$y^{(\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j})} \coloneqq \left\{ \left\{ \mathsf{Projection}\left(\overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{\Bbbk}[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}], \mathsf{I}_{\mathsf{help}}[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}] \oplus \gamma_{\mathbf{j} | \mathbf{i}} \right) \right\}_{\Bbbk \in \mathcal{A}}, \left\{ \widetilde{\mathsf{lab}}_{\Bbbk}[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}] \right\}_{\Bbbk \in \mathcal{H}} \right\}$$

where as described earlier, we have all components of  $I_{help}[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}]$ .

- else, since we do not have shares, or masks, defined for honest servers, we need to use the the implicit masked inputs from the first round simulator messages of the underlying protocol. This exactly corresponds to the components of the message that we had previously "sanitized". We now denote the complementary action, of extracting those components, "extract masked". Since at a given time we only need some components of this masked input, we pass along an additional parameter corresponding to the client index.

$$y^{(\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j})} \coloneqq \left\{ \left\{ \mathsf{Projection}\left(\overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{\mathbb{k}}[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}], \mathsf{extractMasked}\left(\mathtt{M}^1_{\mathsf{aug}}[\mathbf{i}], \mathbf{i}\right)\right) \right\}_{\mathbb{k} \in \mathcal{A}}, \left\{ \widetilde{\mathsf{lab}}_{\mathbb{k}}[\mathbf{i}, \mathbf{j}] \right\}_{\mathbb{k} \in \mathcal{H}} \right\}$$

4. Simulate the second round messages for  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}}$  and send to  $\mathcal{A}$ :  $\forall \mathbf{i} \in [\mathbf{n}], \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}]$ :

$$\mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{2,(\mathbf{i},\mathbb{j})}[*_{\mathcal{H}}] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{help}}(1^{\lambda},\mathcal{H},y^{(\mathbf{i},\mathbb{j})},\mathbf{i},\mathbb{j},\mathbf{M}_{\mathsf{help}}^{1,(\mathbf{i},\mathbb{j})}[*_{\mathcal{A}},*_{\mathcal{H}}])$$

{20}------------------------------------------------

## Round 2. A → Sim

Receive the corresponding messages from A and use the output step to evaluate the garbled circuits. If either the garbled circuits, or the simulator of the underlying protocol, return ⊥ sent ⊥ to F. Otherwise, send continue.

Hybrids. We describe below the hybrids used to prove security of Sim.

Hyb<sup>0</sup> : This is the real execution of the protocol.

Hyb<sup>1</sup> : Hyb<sup>1</sup> is identical to Hyb<sup>0</sup> except that we simulate each invocation of Πhelp.

Claim 1. *From the security of* Πhelp*, hybrids* Hyb<sup>0</sup> *and* Hyb<sup>1</sup> *are computationally indistinguishable.*

*Proof.* Indistinguishability of Hyb<sup>0</sup> and Hyb<sup>1</sup> follows from n · n invocations of the security of Πhelp.

Hyb<sup>2</sup> : Hyb<sup>2</sup> is identical to Hyb<sup>1</sup> except that we simulate each of the honestly generated garbled circuits. We can do this because we've stopped using the honest parties' garbled circuit labels by this point.

Claim 2. *From the security of the garbled circuits, hybrids* Hyb<sup>1</sup> *and* Hyb<sup>2</sup> *are computationally indistinguishable.*

*Proof.* Indistinguishability of Hyb<sup>1</sup> and Hyb<sup>2</sup> follows from |H| invocations of the garbled circuit security.

Hyb<sup>3</sup> : Hyb<sup>3</sup> and Hyb<sup>2</sup> are identical except that we simulate Πaug. Note that this also enforces the checks, and outputs ⊥MAC if the adversary has managed to maul the message.

Claim 3. ⊥MAC *is output with only negligible probability.*

*Proof.* If this was not the case, and it happens with some noticeable probability, then we can construct an adversary that breaks the security of the MAC scheme.

First, we guess randomly the indices j ∈ A, i ∈ H, ` ∈ [n] that we believe will result in the forgery. Since there are only polynomially many such indices to choose from, the resultant adversary still has noticeable probability of success. We sample a random message that corresponds to an input share generated for an honest client, and query the MAC challenger. The resultant tag, along with the share is used for the subsequent simulation for the selected indices. If the guess for the indices is correct, the adversary returns a different (message,tag) pair that we forward to the challenger. Since the adversary has a noticeable probability of success, the constructed adversary for the MAC also has noticeable probability of success. Therefore, we break the security of MAC. This completes the proof of our claim.

Now the indistinguishability follows in a straightforward manner.

Claim 4. *From the security of* Πaug*, hybrids* Hyb<sup>2</sup> *and* Hyb<sup>3</sup> *are statistically indistinguishable.*

*Proof.* Given that ⊥MAC is output with only negligible probability, the remaining behavior for setting the output is identical to the real world. Thus, indistinguishability of Hyb<sup>2</sup> and Hyb<sup>3</sup> follows from the security of Πaug and the correctness of the defined functions sanitize, fillIn, extractMasked.

# <span id="page-20-0"></span>3 Efficiency Preserving Compiler in the Plain Model

In this section we go from the compiler in the client-server model in Section [2](#page-10-1) to present our main result, namely an efficient two-round compiler in the plain model. Formally we prove the following theorem.

Theorem 3. *Let* n *be the number of parties and* λ *be the security parameter, such that* n *is polynomially related to* λ *and let* k *be set to* log<sup>2</sup> (n)*.*

{21}------------------------------------------------

- 1. Assuming one-way functions, there is a round compression compiler that transforms a semi-honest MPC protocol  $\pi$  for any n-party functionality  $\mathcal{F}$  into a two-round semi-honest protocol  $\Pi'$  for  $\mathcal{F}$  with the following properties:
  - (a) If  $\pi$  tolerates corruption threshold  $\varepsilon$ , then  $\Pi'$  tolerates  $\varepsilon'$ , for arbitrary constants  $\varepsilon' < \varepsilon < \frac{1}{2}$ .
  - (b) If the computational cost of  $\pi$  is W = W(n, s), where s is the circuit size representation of  $\mathcal{F}$ , then the amortized per-party computational cost and total communication cost of  $\Pi'$  is

$$O\left(\left(W(k,s+kn)+n^4\lambda^2\right)\cdot\lambda\cdot k^3\right).$$

We will denote this by  $\widetilde{O}(W(k, s + kn)k^{\tau-2} + n^4)$ , where the  $\widetilde{O}$  notation suppresses polynomial factors in k and  $\lambda$ . For most known protocols, the additive term in the circuit size (kn) will be suppressed by the additive term of  $n^4$  simplifying the expression to  $\widetilde{O}(W(k, s) + n^4)$ .

- 2. Assuming one-way functions, there is a round compression compiler that transforms a maliciously secure MPC protocol  $\pi$  for any n-party functionality  $\mathcal F$  into a three-round maliciously secure protocol  $\Pi'$  for  $\mathcal F$  that satisfies properties I(a) and amortized per-party computational cost  $\widetilde{O}(W(k,s)+n^{\tau+4})$ .
- 3. Assuming NIWIs, there is a round compression compiler that transforms a maliciously secure MPC protocol  $\pi$  for any n-party functionality  $\mathcal F$  into a two-round maliciously secure protocol  $\Pi'$  in the reusable correlated randomness setup model for  $\mathcal F$  that satisfies properties I(a) and amortized per-party computational cost  $\widetilde{O}(W(k,s)+n^{\tau+4})$ .

**Overview.** We now present an overview of the compiler that builds on the protocol output by the compiler from Section 2 (Theorem 2) in the client-server model to get a compiler in the plain model. Along the way, we shall discuss the relevant properties used from Theorem 2. We shall do this in two steps.

- 1. **Phase one:** Compile the protocol in Section 2 to a protocol in the  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$ -hybrid model. In this model, at the start of the protocol, each party receives a bit from  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$  indicating whether it is in the committee. The functionality  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$  is described in Figure 4.
- 2. **Phase two:** Instantiate  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$  based on the desired security properties of the final protocol.

```
Function: \mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}

Parameter: k

Parties: \mathcal{P} \coloneqq \{P_1, \dots, P_n\}

Inputs: Parties do not have inputs.

Select, in expectation, a random k-sized subset of the parties to be elected to the committee.

Output: For each P_i: if P_i was selected, send 1. Else, send 0.
```

<span id="page-21-0"></span>Figure 4: The randomized functionality that selects a k-sized committee in expectation

The main challenge in going from the client-server model to the plain model is that parties are no longer aware of the roles of the other parties, i.e. which parties are clients and which are servers. To get around this issue, we will leverage the fact that  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$  guarantees that every party knows whether it is a server, but doesn't know its index in the server set.

Since the party doesn't know its role (index) in the server (resp. client) set, it computes messages assuming all m (resp. n) roles. At the end of the first round, when all parties are aware of the elected committee based on the messages sent, the irrelevant messages are discarded. But a problem with this approach is that the protocol involves

{22}------------------------------------------------

private messages, which require knowledge of the recipient's role. Based on the properties listed in Theorem 2 from Section 2, we can divide the private messages into two categories which are handled differently:

**private message independent of the role of the receiving party**. This is the case for all private messages sent by the clients, and some of the private messages sent by the servers. This is an easy setting to handle since these messages can be sent privately without the need to know the recipient's role.

private message intended for the parties in the server set. This is of concern only to parties that are elected into the committee. Since a party is not aware of other elected parties, these messages cannot be sent privately. Instead, the party masks these messages, and broadcasts the masked messages. But we want the designated party to receive the mask, and unmask the message to proceed with the computation. We seem to be back where we started, but we use a solution similar to Section 2, where the second round computation of the server parties are delegated to a garbled circuit. Now, the party generating the mask initiates a helper protocol that will enable the appropriate party's garbled circuit to receive the mask, thereby allowing to proceed with the computation. To ensure there is no complexity blow-up by involving all parties, we make sure that the size of the computation involving all parties is independent of the underlying circuit. This is easily done by utilizing a pseudo-random generator (PRG) to generate the masks.

The relevance of the other properties listed in Theorem 2 is in the efficiency of the resultant protocol.

# <span id="page-22-0"></span>3.1 Phase One: $\mathcal{F}_{election}$ -hybrid Model

In this section, we shall perform the first step of our compilation. Namely, we shall compile the protocol in Section 2 from the client-server model to a protocol in the  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$ -hybrid model. To differentiate from the client-server models, we shall refer to parties "elected" to be in the server set to be a part of a committee.

**Building Blocks.** The main primitives required in this construction are the following:

1. The two-round protocol  $\Pi_{f_{c-s}}$  from Section 2 in the client-server model.

For this section, we shall use the following notation to refer to the first round messages of  $\Pi_{f_{c-s}}$ . There are special first round messages<sup>13</sup> that are privately sent among the servers, these will be denoted by an additional  $\mathbb{S}$ :  $\mathbb{M}^1_{f_{c-s}}[\dot{\mathbf{i}},\dot{\mathbf{j}},\mathbb{S}]$  indicates the special message sent from server indexed by  $\dot{\mathbf{i}}$  to the server indexed by  $\dot{\mathbf{j}}$ . Other messages are denoted as previous sections with  $\mathbb{M}^1_{f_{c-s}}[i,j]$  indicating a message from party i to j (with appropriate font to differentiate between clients and severs). Broadcast messages correspondingly defined. Additionally, as before, we group messages corresponding clients ( $\bullet$ ), servers ( $\diamond$ ) or all parties (\*).

- 2. A Garbled Circuit scheme  $GC = \{Gen, Garb, Eval\}$  (Section A.2).
- 3. A two-round maliciously secure honest majority protocol  $\Pi_{mOT}$  computing function  $\mathcal{F}_{mOT}$  described in Figure 5.

 $\mathcal{F}_{mOT}$  is similar to a multi-party variant of oblivious transfer. There are two designated parties, sender (sen) and receiver (rec) with inputs b and  $(x_0, x_1)$  respectively, while all other parties are referred to as helper (hel) parties.  $\mathcal{F}_{mOT}$  outputs  $x_b$  to all the parties.

Our protocol will use multiple instance of the  $\Pi_{mOT}$  protocol, which is indexed by indices corresponding to (sender, receiver).

<span id="page-22-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>13</sup>This will correspond to the messages whose size depend on the size of the circuit being computed.

{23}------------------------------------------------

```
Function: \mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{mOT}}

Parties: \mathcal{P} \coloneqq \{P_1, \dots, P_n\}

Inputs:

- Party P_i (also called the receiver) has input \{x_{i,0}, x_{i,1}\}_{i \in [q]}

- Party P_j (also called the sender) has input b \in \{0,1\}^q.

- For each P_k \in \mathcal{P} \setminus \{P_i, P_j\} (also called the helper parties) have no inputs.

Output: Every party receives \{x_{i,b[i]}\}_{i \in [q]}
```

<span id="page-23-0"></span>Figure 5: The function  $\mathcal{F}_{mOT}$  where  $P_i$  acts as the sender and  $P_j$  acts as receiver

4. A pseudo-random generator PRG :  $\{0,1\}^{\lambda} \to \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{poly}(\lambda)}$  (Section A.3).

As explained earlier, prior to sending the first round messages, a party is only aware if it is in the committee, but not its role (index) in the committee (or outside). In our protocol, depending on whether party  $P_i$  is in the committee (resp. outside),  $P_i$  computes the first round message for *every* possible role in the committee (resp. outside). The index of the sender in the protocol message is thus denoted by (i, j) (resp. (i, j)) to indicate  $P_i$ 's message for role j in the committee (resp. role j outside).

Although no party is aware of the roles of the other parties at the start of the first round of the protocol, there is an implicit mapping from the set of all parties to the corresponding role in the committee (or outside).  $\mathbb{Q}$  (resp.  $\mathbb{Q}$ ) denotes this mapping. At the end of the first round, all parties will be able to locally compute both the mappings and discard the relevant messages. We shall also abuse notation slightly and use  $\mathbb{Q}$  and  $\mathbb{Q}$  to denote the corresponding sets.

**Protocol.** Let  $\mathcal{P} = \{P_1, \dots, P_n\}$  be the set of parties in the protocol and let the corresponding inputs be  $x_1, \dots, x_n$ . We now give a formal description of the protocol in the  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$ -hybrid model. We assume parties sample appropriate random strings in the protocol description.

**Initialization-Election.** At the start of the protocol, each party  $P_i$  receives a bit from  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$ . If the received bit is 1, then  $P_i$  is a committee member, else it is a non-committee member.

**Round 1.** Each non-committee member  $P_i$  for  $i \in \mathbb{Q}$  computes the following:

- 1. For  $\mathbf{i} \in [\mathbf{n}]$  compute the first round of the following assuming role  $\mathbf{i}$ :
  - Client message in  $\Pi_{f_{c-s}} : M^1_{f_{c-s}}[(i, \mathbf{i}), *] \leftarrow \Pi^1_{f_{c-s}}(\mathbf{i}, x_i)$
  - $\ \forall \mathtt{j}, \mathtt{k} \in [\mathtt{n}], (\mathtt{j}, \mathtt{k}) \text{-th instance of } \Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}} \text{ as helper: } \mathtt{M}^{1,(\mathtt{j},\mathtt{k})}_{\mathsf{mOT}}[(i, \mathbf{i}), *] \leftarrow \Pi^{1}_{\mathsf{mOT}}(\mathsf{hel}, \bot)$
- 2. For every j, send  $(i, M^1_{f_{c-s}}[(i, \bullet), j], M^{1,(\diamond,\diamond)}_{mOT}[(i, \bullet), j])$  to  $P_j$  privately.
- 3. Broadcast  $M^1_{f_{c-s}}[(i, \bullet), B]$ .

Each committee members  $P_i$  for  $i \in \mathbb{Q}$  computes the following:

- 1. For  $i \in [n]$  compute the first round of the following assuming role i:
  - (a) First round server messages in  $\Pi_{f_{c-s}}$ :  $M^1_{f_{c-s}}[(i, i), *], M^1_{f_{c-s}}[(i, i), \diamond, \mathbb{S}] \leftarrow \Pi^1_{f_{c-s}}(i, x_i)$
  - (b) Sample PRG seeds  $s[(i, i), \diamond]$
  - (c) Wire labels for a garbled circuit:  $\overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{(i,i)}[\diamond,(i,i)] \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda})$
  - $(\mathbf{d}) \ \forall \mathbf{j} \in [\mathbf{n}] \colon \mathsf{ct}[(i,\mathbf{i}),\mathbf{j}] \coloneqq \mathsf{M}^1_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}[(i,\mathbf{i}),\mathbf{j},\mathbb{S}] \oplus \mathsf{PRG}(s[(i,\mathbf{i}),\mathbf{j}])$
  - (e) First round of  $\Pi_{mOT}$ , for every  $j \in [n]$ ,
    - i. (i,j)-th instance as sender:  $M_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{1,(i,j)}[(i,i),*] \leftarrow \Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{1}(\mathsf{sen},s[(i,i),j])$ .

{24}------------------------------------------------

```
ii. (j,i)-th instance as receiver: M_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{1,(j,i)}[(i,i),*] \leftarrow \Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{1}(\mathsf{rec},\overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{(i,i)}[j,(i,i)]).
                  iii. for every \mathbb{k} \in [n], (j, \mathbb{k})-th instance as helper: M_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{1,(j,\mathbb{k})}[(i, \mathbb{i}), *] \leftarrow \Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{1}(\mathsf{hel}, \bot)
  \text{2. For every } j \in [n] \text{, send } \left(i, \ \mathtt{M}^1_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}[(i, \diamond), j], \ \mathtt{M}^{1, (\diamond, \diamond)}_{\mathsf{mOT}}[(i, \diamond), j] \right) \text{ to } P_j.
  \text{3. Broadcast msg}_i^1 \coloneqq \left(i, \, \mathtt{M}^1_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}[(i, \diamond), B], \, \operatorname{ct}[(i, \diamond), \diamond] \right)
At the end of Round 1. Each party locally computes the mappings \mathbb{Q} and \mathbb{Q}, discards the extra messages and updates
sender index from (i, \mathbb{Q}(i)) to i = \mathbb{Q}(i) for P_i in the committee and (i, \mathbb{Q}(i)) to i = \mathbb{Q}(i) for P_i not in the committee.
Round 2. Each committee member P_i for i \in \mathbb{Q} sets i := \mathbb{Q}(i) and computes:
  1. A garbled circuit as \overline{P}_i \leftarrow \mathsf{Garb}(P_i, \overline{\mathsf{lab}}_i[\diamond, i]) where P_i is computed as
         \mathsf{P}_{\mathtt{i}} \coloneqq \mathsf{P}_{\mathsf{plain}}[x_{\mathtt{i}}, \mathsf{ct}[\diamond, \mathtt{i}], \mathsf{M}^{1}_{f_{\mathsf{cs}}}[*, B], \mathsf{M}^{1}_{f_{\mathsf{cs}}}[*, \mathtt{i}]] where \mathsf{P}_{\mathsf{plain}} defined in Figure 6.
  2. \forall j, k \in [n], (j, k)-th instance of \Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}} : \mathtt{M}^{2,(j,k)}_{\mathsf{mOT}}[i, B] \leftarrow \Pi^2_{\mathsf{mOT}}(\mathtt{M}^{1,(j,k)}_{\mathsf{mOT}}[*,i]).
  3. Broadcast \overline{P}_i, M_{mOT}^{2,(\diamond,\diamond)}[i,B]
Each non-committee member P_i for i \in \mathbf{Q} sets \mathbf{i} := \mathbf{Q}(i) and computes:
  1. Client messages in \Pi_{f_{c-s}} : \mathbb{M}^2_{f_{c-s}}[\mathbf{i}, B] \leftarrow \Pi^2_{f_{c-s}}(\mathbb{M}^1_{f_{c-s}}[*, B], \mathbb{M}^1_{f_{c-s}}[*, \mathbf{i}])
  2. \ \forall \mathbb{j}, \mathbb{k} \in [\mathbb{n}], (\mathbb{j}, \mathbb{k}) \text{-th instance of } \Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}} \colon \mathtt{M}^{2,(\mathbb{j},\mathbb{k})}_{\mathsf{mOT}}[\mathbf{i}, B] \leftarrow \Pi^{2}_{\mathsf{mOT}}(\mathtt{M}^{1,(\mathbb{j},\mathbb{k})}_{\mathsf{mOT}}[*, \mathbf{i}]).
  3. Broadcast M_{f_{c-s}}^2[\mathbf{i}, B], M_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{2,(\diamond,\diamond)}[\mathbf{i}, B].
Output Computation. Each party does the following:
  1. \forall j, k \in [n] output of \Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}} : \mathsf{lab}_{k}[j, k] \leftarrow \Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{\mathsf{out}}(\mathtt{M}_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{2,(j,k)}[*, B]).
  2. \forall \mathtt{i} \in [\mathtt{m}], evaluate the garbled circuits: \mathtt{M}^2_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}[\mathtt{i},B] \leftarrow \mathsf{Eval}(\overline{\mathsf{P}}_\mathtt{i},\widetilde{\mathsf{lab}}_{\Bbbk}[\diamond, \Bbbk])
  3. Output y \leftarrow \Pi^{\mathsf{out}}_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}(\mathtt{M}^2_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}[*,B])
```

```
\begin{aligned} & \textbf{Input: } s[\diamond, i] \\ & \textbf{Hardcoded: } x_i, \textbf{ct}[\diamond, i], \textbf{M}^1_{f_{cs}}[*, B], \textbf{M}^1_{f_{cs}}[*, i] \\ & \textbf{Function:} \\ & - \text{ For each } j \in [n], \textbf{M}^1_{f_{cs}}[j, i, \mathbb{S}] \coloneqq \textbf{ct}[j, i] \oplus \mathsf{PRG}(s[j, i]) \\ & - \text{ Compute server messages in } \Pi_{f_{cs}} \colon \textbf{M}^2_{f_{cs}}[i, B] \leftarrow \Pi^2_{f_{cs}}(\textbf{M}^1_{f_{cs}}[*, B], \textbf{M}^1_{f_{cs}}[*, i], \textbf{M}^1_{f_{cs}}[*, i], \textbf{M}^1_{f_{cs}}[*, i, \mathbb{S}]) \\ & - \text{ Output } \textbf{M}^2_{f_{cs}}[i, B] \end{aligned}
```

Figure 6: Program  $P_{plain}$  unmasks the first round messages sent via broadcast, and computes the second round messages of  $\Pi_{f_{c-s}}$ .

Complexity. Note that there are  $n^2$  instances of  $\Pi_{mOT}$ , where the sender has inputs of length  $O(\lambda)$ , while the receiver has inputs of length  $O(\lambda^2)$ . Given that  $\Pi_{mOT}$  implements a quadratic functionality, the resulting circuit computed by each instance has size  $O(\lambda^2)$ . Also, each instance is run by all n parties. Importantly, the circuit size is independent of s, size of circuit representing the underlying protocol. There is an additional overhead of parties not knowing their own role in the committee. Finally, there is a single instance of  $\Pi_{f_{c-s}}$  computed by all parties. The cost then follows from the properties of the underlying protocols and the details are presented in Appendix B.

{25}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-25-0"></span>3.1.1 Proof of Security

We prove security of the above protocol in the  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$ -hybrid model. Let  $\mathcal{A}$  be any Real-world PPT adversary. We construct an Ideal-world adversary Sim who simulates the Real-world view of  $\mathcal{A}$  by simulating the honest parties in the Ideal-world experiment. Let  $\mathcal{I}$  be the set of parties that the adversary corrupts. We use  $\mathcal{H}$  to denote the set of honest parties. We will internally use  $\mathsf{Sim}_{f_{c-s}}$  for the underlying client-server protocol,  $\mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{mOT}}$  for  $\Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}}$  and  $\mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{GC}}$  for the garbled circuit. Recall that  $\mathcal{A}$  is static and hence  $\mathcal{H}$  is known prior to the protocol execution.

**Initialization**: The simulator simulates the randomized functionality  $\mathcal{F}_{\text{election}}$ , and sends the appropriate bits to the adversarial parties. Let  $\mathcal{I}_{\mathbb{Q}}$  denote the set of adversarial parties in the committee. Correspondingly,  $\mathcal{H}_{\mathbb{Q}}$  denotes the set of honest parties in the committee. For simplicity of notation, we assume that the simulator keeps state, and additional inputs to the simulator are ignored hereon. As in the protocol, we shall group messages accordingly. Additionally, we denote by  $*_{\mathcal{A}}$  the indices corresponding to the adversarial party, and  $*_{\mathcal{H}}$  the corresponding indices for the honest parties. We will augment this notation with appropriate superscripts when talking about group honest or adversarial indices within or outside the committee.

When grouping indices of the parties receiving a message, we overload  $*_{\mathcal{A}}$  to also include broadcast messages.

#### **Round** 1 Sim $\rightarrow \mathcal{A}$ :

- 1. For each  $\mathbf{i} \in \mathcal{C}$ , simulate first round client messages in for honest non-committee members in  $\Pi_{f_{c-s}}$ :  $\mathbb{M}^1_{f_{c-s}}[(*_{\mathcal{H}_{\mathbf{Q}}},\mathbf{i}),*_{\mathcal{A}}] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{f_{c-s}}(1^{\lambda},\mathcal{H}_{\mathbf{Q}}).$
- 2. For each  $i \in \mathcal{S}$ , simulate first round server messages for each honest committee member in  $\Pi_{f_{\text{c-s}}}$ :  $\mathbb{M}^1_{f_{\text{c-s}}}[(*_{\mathcal{H}_{\mathbb{Q}}},i),*_{\mathcal{A}}],\mathbb{M}^1_{f_{\text{c-s}}}[(\diamond_{\mathcal{H}_{\mathbb{Q}}},i),\diamond_{\mathcal{A}_{\mathbb{Q}}},\mathbb{S}] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{f_{\text{c-s}}}(1^{\lambda},\mathcal{H}_{\mathbb{Q}}).$
- 3. For each  $j, k \in \mathcal{S}$  simulate the first round messages of honest parties in  $\Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}} \colon \mathtt{M}^{1,(j,k)}_{\mathsf{mOT}}[*_{\mathcal{H}},*_{\mathcal{A}}] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{mOT}}(1^{\lambda},\mathcal{H}).$
- 4. For each  $(i, i) \in \mathcal{H}_{\mathbb{Q}} \times \mathcal{S}$  and each  $j \in \mathcal{S}$  do the following:
  - $-\text{ If } \mathbf{j} \in \mathcal{H}_{\mathbb{Q}}, \operatorname{ct}[(i, \mathbf{i}) \to \mathbf{j}] \leftarrow \$\{0, 1\}^{\operatorname{poly}(\lambda)}$
  - $\text{ Else sample a seed } s[(i, \mathbf{i}), \mathbf{j}] \text{ and compute } \mathsf{ct}[(i, \mathbf{i}), \mathbf{j}] \coloneqq \mathtt{M}^1_{f_{\mathsf{C-S}}}[(i, \mathbf{i}), \mathbf{j}, \mathbb{S}] \oplus \mathsf{PRG}(s[(i, \mathbf{i}), \mathbf{j}])$

**Round 1 Messages from**  $\mathcal{A}$  **to** Sim: Receive the corresponding first round messages from  $\mathcal{A}$ . Drop all first round messages other than those satisfying the mapping defined in the protocol at the end of round 1. Feed adversarial messages into the corresponding simulator, that in turn makes calls to the corresponding ideal functionality.

- $\operatorname{Sim}_{f_{c-s}}$  makes calls  $f_{c-s}$  with adversarial inputs  $\overrightarrow{x}_{\mathcal{A}}$ . Send these to  $\mathcal{F}$  and get output y.
- For each  $j, k \in \mathcal{S}$ ,  $Sim_{mOT}$  makes calls to  $\mathcal{F}_{mOT}$  depending on the role of the adversarial party:
  - if j, k are both honest,  $Sim_{mOT}$  sends  $\perp$ .
  - if  $\mathbf{j}$  is adversarial,  $Sim_{mOT}$  sends  $s[\mathbf{j}, \mathbf{k}]$ .
  - if k is adversarial,  $Sim_{mOT}$  sends  $\overline{lab}_{k}[j, k]$ .

# Round 2 Sim $\rightarrow \mathcal{A}$ :

- 1. Simulate second round messages of honest parties in  $\Pi_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}} \colon \mathsf{M}^2_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}} [*_{\mathcal{H}}, B] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}} (1^{\lambda}, \overrightarrow{x}_{\mathcal{A}}, y).$
- 2. For each  $i \in \mathcal{H}_{\mathbb{Q}}$ , simulate garbled circuit as follows:  $\overline{\mathsf{P}}_{i}$ ,  $\widetilde{\mathsf{lab}}_{i}[*,i] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{GC}}(1^{\lambda},\mathtt{M}^{2}_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}[i,B])$ .
- 3.  $j, k \in \mathcal{S}$ , simulate  $\Pi_{mOT}$ ,

{26}------------------------------------------------

- if  $\mathbb{k}$  is honest,  $\mathtt{M}^{2,(j,\mathbb{k})}_{\mathsf{mOT}}[*_{\mathcal{H}},B] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{mOT}}(1^{\lambda},\widetilde{\mathsf{lab}}_{\mathtt{i}}[\mathtt{j},\mathtt{i}]).$
- else if k is adversarial,  $M_{\mathsf{mOT}}^{2,(j,k)}[*_{\mathcal{H}}, B] \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{mOT}}(1^{\lambda}, \mathsf{Projection}(s[j,k], \overline{\mathsf{lab}}_{k}[j,k]))$ . where the labels are from the input queried by  $\mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{mOT}}$ . The seed has either already been sampled if j is honest, or been queried by the simulator if j is adversarial.
- 4. Broadcast  $M_{f_{c-s}}^2[*_{\mathcal{H}_{\mathbf{Q}}}, B]$ .

**Round 2 Messages from** A **to** Sim: Feed the received second round messages into the corresponding simulators in the following order.

- Feed messages in  $Sim_{mOT}$ . If any of them output  $\bot$ , send  $\bot$  to the ideal functionality  $\mathcal{F}$ . Else, collect all the labels.
- Evaluate the garbled circuits sent by the adversary using the labels obtained above. If any of them evaluate to  $\bot$ , send  $\bot$  to the ideal functionality  $\mathcal{F}$ .
- Feed the output of the garbled circuits into  $\mathsf{Sim}_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}$ , if it outputs  $\bot$  send  $\bot$  to the ideal functionality  $\mathcal{F}$ . If it outputs continue, send continue to the ideal functionality.

#### <span id="page-26-0"></span>3.1.2 Hybrids

We describe below the hybrids used to prove security of Sim.

 $\mathsf{Hyb}_0$ : This is the real execution of the protocol.

 $\mathsf{Hyb}_1$ :  $\mathsf{Hyb}_1$  is identical to  $\mathsf{Hyb}_0$  except that we simulate each invocation of  $\Pi_{\mathsf{mOT}}$ .

**Claim 5.** From the security of  $\Pi_{mOT}$ , hybrids  $Hyb_0$  and  $Hyb_1$  are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Indistinguishability of Hyb<sub>0</sub> and Hyb<sub>1</sub> follows from  $\mathbf{n} \cdot \mathbf{n}$  invocations of the security of  $\Pi_{mOT}$ .

Hyb<sub>2</sub>: Hyb<sub>2</sub> is identical to Hyb<sub>1</sub> except that we simulate each of the honestly generated garbled circuits. We can do this because we've stopped using the honest parties' garbled circuit labels by this point.

**Claim 6.** From the security of the garbled circuit scheme, hybrids  $\mathsf{Hyb}_1$  and  $\mathsf{Hyb}_2$  are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Indistinguishability of  $\mathsf{Hyb}_1$  and  $\mathsf{Hyb}_2$  follows from  $|\mathcal{H}|$  invocations of the garbled circuit security.

Hyb<sub>3</sub>: Hyb<sub>3</sub> and Hyb<sub>2</sub> are similar except that we use a random string to encrypt messages for the honest parties instead of a pseudorandom string.

Now the indistinguishability follows from the indistinguishability PRG outputs.

**Claim 7.** From the security of the pseudorandom generator, hybrids  $\mathsf{Hyb}_2$  and  $\mathsf{Hyb}_3$  are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Given that an adversary can distinguish an output of a random function from that of a pseudorandom generator only with a negligible probability, hybrids  $Hyb_2$  and  $Hyb_3$  are indistinguishable.

 $\mathsf{Hyb}_4: \, \mathsf{Hyb}_4$  is similar to  $\mathsf{Hyb}_3$  except that we simulate  $\Pi_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}.$ 

**Claim 8.** From the security of protocol  $\Pi_{f_{c-s}}$ , hybrids  $\mathsf{Hyb}_3$  and  $\mathsf{Hyb}_4$  are computationally indistinguishable.

*Proof.* Indistinguishability of hybrids  $\mathsf{Hyb}_3$  and  $\mathsf{Hyb}_4$  follows from the malicious security of  $\Pi_{f_{\mathsf{c-s}}}$ .

Note that Hyb<sub>4</sub> is identical to the ideal execution in the presence of the simulator. This proves the security of our construction.

{27}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-27-0"></span>3.2 Phase Two

We can now complete the description of our compiler by instantiating the randomized functionality Felection used in the protocol described in the Felection-hybrid model. We consider three different settings, which will lead to corresponding results. The settings are

- semi-honest
- malicious in the reusable correlated randomness model
- malicious in the plain model

Semi-honest. For the semi-honest setting, the protocol idea is simple: every party tosses appropriately biased coins to determine if it is in the committee. The only thing left to do is to determine the right parameters so that we have a committee with poly-logarithmic size and honest majority. This is a non-interactive process, and the resultant protocol is given below. The committee size will be (1 − δ) · k, where δ is any non-zero constant.

## Round 1. Each party does the following:

- Toss a coin that outputs 1 with probability p = k n . If output 1, it assumes it is a part of the committee and computes the messages
- If it is in the committee, pick an element a<sup>i</sup> ←\$ Zq, from an exponentially sized field Zq. This is to pick the relative position within the committee and trim the committee if needed.
- All parties compute the client messages, and the parties that assumed they were in the committee additionally compute server messages. This is because the committee might be larger than the final size, and a party make not make it to the final committee.
- Only parties that assumed they were in the committee broadcast their a<sup>i</sup> value.

Round 2. On receiving the first round messages, each party knows both (a) which parties are in the committee; and (b) the relative roles of each party in the committee. This follows from picking the committee to be the ordered set of first (1 − δ) · k parties based on their broadcast a<sup>i</sup> . It then executed the rest of the protocol appropriately.

Since each party independently samples coins to determine if it is in the committee, the expected party size is k. If we set k = Ω(log<sup>2</sup> (n)), from the Chernoff bound, other than with negligible probability, the size of the committee is > (1 − δ) log<sup>2</sup> (n), and thus will not end up with a smaller committee. By a similar argument, it is easy to see that other than with negligible probability, honest majority is maintained in the committee. This gives us a resultant *two round semi-honest protocol in the plain model*.

Lemma 2. *Assuming the that the fraction of adversarial parties are bounded by* 1 <sup>2</sup> − *for some* > 0*, our constructed protocol is a two round semi-honest protocol.*

Remark 4. *While our protocol is proven in the malicious setting, we instantiate the underlying protocols with their corresponding semi-honest versions. The semi-honest versions also satisfy Lemma [1.](#page-11-2)*

The security of the protocol follows from the composition theorem for semi-honest protocols [\[Gol04\]](#page-32-12).

Malicious in the reusable correlated randomness model. We consider the setting of the reusable correlated randomness model, where the trusted set up can select the public and private keys for a verifiable random function (VRF) [\[MRV99\]](#page-33-2). We then follow the same strategy of selecting a committee as done in Algorand [\[GHM](#page-32-6)+17]. While they select committees by weight, we set the weights for each party to be identical (say 1).

Specifically, the trusted parties select public/private key pairs (pk<sup>i</sup> ,sk<sup>i</sup> ) for each party i, and a random seed. Additionally, a threshold τ is picked based on the required size of the committee.

{28}------------------------------------------------

**Round 1.** Each party receives the public key for all parties, and a public/private key pair  $(pk_i, sk_i)$  unique to it. It then evaluates the VRF to determine if it is in the committee. It then computes the first round messages of the Phase one protocol, and also broadcasts the messages indicating it is in the committee.

**Round 2.** Compute the second round messages of the Phase one protocol.

We allow the adversary to adaptively pick the parties it corrupts having seen only the public keys for all parties and the private keys for the parties it has corrupted thus far.

As stated in [GHM $^+$ 17], we have the following two properties. Given a random seed, VRF outputs a pseudorandom value. Hence the parties are randomly picked into the committee. An adversary that does not know the secret key  $sk_i$  for party i cannot guess if i was chosen at all (more precisely, the adversary cannot guess any better than just by randomly guessing).

This lets us allow the adversary to adaptively corrupt parties based on the public keys, seed and the secret keys of the parties it has corrupted thus far. This would give us a *two round protocol*, *maliciously secure against an adaptive adversary in the presence of trusted set up*.

**Lemma 3.** Assuming the that the fraction of adversarial parties are bounded by  $(\frac{1}{2} - \epsilon)$  for some  $\epsilon > 0$ , our constructed protocol is a two round protocol in the trusted set up model secure against malicious adversaries.

We note that the best known constructions for VRFs are based on non-interactive witness indistinguishable proofs (NIWIs) [Bit17, GHKW17], which are in turn known from the assumption of bilinear maps [GOS12].

<u>Malicious in the plain model.</u> In the malicious setting, we cannot let the parties locally sample coins. Instead, we run Feige's lightest bin protocol [Fei99] to determine the committee. The protocol gives a method of selecting a committee of approximately k parties for a given parameter k. It is a single round protocol, where the parties broadcast their choice of a random bin in the set  $\left[\frac{n}{k}\right]$ . This adds an additional round to the start of the protocol.

**Round 1.** Every party broadcasts a random bin in the set  $\left[\frac{n}{\log^2(n)}\right]$ .

**Round 2.** Each party knows whether they are in the committee based on the received broadcast, by picking the  $(1 - \delta) \cdot k$  lightest bins. In fact at the end of this round, we get a stronger property that every party is aware of the role of every party in the protocol, i.e. whether a given party is in the committee.

Now each party can compute first round messages of the protocol from Phase one.

**Round 3.** Each party computes second round messages of the protocol from Phase one.

The following lemma from [Fei99] is relevant to us.

**Lemma 4** ( [Fei99]). For  $k = \log^2 n$ , if the number of corrupted parties is  $\beta n$ , for any constant  $\delta > 0$ , other than with negligible probability in n, the size of the committee C will be elected such that:

**bound on size:**  $(1 - \beta - \delta) \log^2 n \le |\mathcal{C}| \le \log^2 n$ ;

**honest parties in committee:** # honest parties in the committee is  $\geq ((1 - \beta - \delta) \log^2 n)$ .

In our setting,  $\beta < (\frac{1}{2} - \epsilon)$ , which guarantees an honest majority in the committee. This gives us a resultant *three* round maliciously secure protocol in the plain model.

**Lemma 5.** Assuming the that the fraction of adversarial parties are bounded by  $(\frac{1}{2} - \epsilon)$  for some  $\epsilon > 0$ , our constructed protocol is a three round protocol secure against malicious adversaries.

The security of the protocol follows from the sequential composition theorem [Gol04].

**Remark 5.** We note that both  $\mathcal{F}_{help}$  and  $\mathcal{F}_{mOT}$  resemble the multiparty homomorphic OT (M-OT) functionality described in [ACGJ18]. These functionalities can be seen as special cases of the M-OT functionality, but we've described them separately for ease of notation.

{29}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-29-0"></span>4 Impossibility Result

In this section we prove our impossibility result showing that our committee based approaches are inherent to the results we achieve.

**Theorem 4.** There exists an n-party function  $\mathcal{F}$ , such that there does not exist an n-party, r-round balanced scalable (possibly insecure) MPC protocol, where each party does asymptotically equal amount of work, computing a circuit C of size s, where r is some constant, and the protocol can be represented by a circuit of size  $\tilde{O}(s)$  defined over the basis  $\{AND, OR, NOT\}$ .

*Proof.* We make a novel use of the "MPC in the head" paradigm [IKOS09] to prove this theorem.

Let us assume for contradiction that for every n-party functionality  $\mathcal{F}$ , there exists an r-round scalable MPC protocol  $\Pi$  computing  $\mathcal{F}$ , where r is a constant and each party can be represented as a circuit over the basis  $\{\text{AND}, \text{OR}, \text{NOT}\}$  of size  $\tilde{O}(s)/n$ . Let  $\Pi.\text{NMF}i, j$  be the next-message function of party i (for each  $i \in [n]$ ) in round j (for each  $j \in [r]$ ). Since r is a constant, the size of the circuit implementing the next-message function of each party  $i \in [n]$  in each round  $j \in [r]$  is

$$|\Pi.\mathsf{NMF}_{i,j}| = \frac{\tilde{O}(s)}{rn} = \frac{\tilde{O}(s)}{n}$$

Hence, depth of each next message function  $|\Pi.\mathsf{NMF}_{i,j}|_d = \tilde{O}(s)/n$ .

**Base Step.** We now modify  $\Pi$  to  $\Pi_1$  as follows: for each  $i \in [n], j \in [r]$ , we execute MPC protocol  $\Pi$  (let us denote this execution by  $\Pi_{1,i,j}$ ) to implement  $\Pi.\mathsf{NMF}_{i,j}$ . The size of the circuit implementing the next-message function of each party  $i' \in [n]$  in each round  $j' \in [r]$  of this sub-protocol  $\Pi_{1,i,j}$  is

$$|\Pi_{1,i,j}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'}| = \frac{\tilde{O}(|\Pi.\mathsf{NMF}_{i,j}|)}{n} = \frac{\tilde{O}(s)}{n^2}$$

Hence, depth of each next message function in each sub-protocol  $|\Pi_{1,i,j}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'}|_d = \tilde{O}(s)/n^2$ .

The total number of rounds in the resulting protocol  $\Pi_1$  is  $r^2$  and in each round  $j' \in [r^2]$ , the next message function of each party  $i' \in [n]$  is

$$\Pi_1.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'} = \Pi_{1,1,j}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'}||\dots||\Pi_{1,n,j}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'}|$$

where  $j = j' \mod r$ . Note that since this is a parallel composition of n circuits, each of depth  $\tilde{O}(s)/n^2$ , the depth of each next message function in the modified protocol  $\Pi_1 = \tilde{O}(s)/n^2$ .

Let p be a constant such that  $\tilde{O}(s)/n^p$  is some constant c. Now for each  $k \in \{2, \ldots, p-1\}$ , we perform the following recursion step.

**Recursion Step.** We modify the  $r^k$ -round protocol  $\Pi_{k-1}$  to obtain  $\Pi_k$  as follows: for each  $i \in [n], j \in [r^k]$ , we execute MPC protocol  $\Pi$  (let us denote this execution by  $\Pi_{k,i,j}$ ) to implement  $\Pi_{k-1}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i,j}$ . Similar to before, the depth of the circuit implementing the next-message function of each party  $i' \in [n]$  in each round  $j' \in [r]$  of this sub-protocol  $\Pi_{k,i,j}$  is

$$|\Pi_{k,i,j}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'}|_d = \frac{\tilde{O}(|\Pi_{k-1}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i,j}|_d)}{n} = \frac{\tilde{O}(s)}{n^{k+1}}$$

The total number of rounds in the resulting protocol  $\Pi_1$  is  $r^2$  and in each round  $j' \in [r^{k+1}]$ , the next message function of each party  $i' \in [n]$  is

$$\Pi_k.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'} = \Pi_{k,1,j}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'}||\dots||\Pi_{k,n,j}.\mathsf{NMF}_{i',j'}||$$

{30}------------------------------------------------

where  $j = j' \mod r$ . Again since this is a parallel composition of n circuits, each of depth  $\tilde{O}(s)/n^{k+1}$ , the depth of each next message function in the resulting modified protocol  $\Pi_1 = \tilde{O}(s)/n^{k+1}$ .

**Protocol**  $\Pi_{p-1}$ . The depth of the next message function of each party in each round, in the final  $r^p$ -round protocol  $\Pi_{p-1}$  is

$$\frac{\tilde{O}(s)}{n^p} = c$$

Thus the final modified protocol  $\Pi_{p-1}$  can be viewed as a circuit of depth  $(c \times \text{No. of rounds}) = c \cdot r^p = O(1)$ . Moreover, the size of this circuit is poly(s).

This means that every n-party functionality  $\mathcal{F}$  representable by a polynomial-sized circuit, also admits a constant-depth polynomial-sized circuit over the basis  $\{AND, OR, NOT\}$  and thus is in  $AC^0$ . However note that there are functions like parity and majority that are not in  $AC^0$ . Therefore, this is a clear contradiction.

# Acknowledgments

Arka Rai Choudhuri, Aarushi Goel and Abhishek Jain are supported in part by DARPA/ARL Safeware Grant W911NF-15-C-0213, NSF CNS-1814919, NSF CAREER 1942789, Samsung Global Research Outreach award and Johns Hopkins University Catalyst award. Arka Rai Choudhuri is also supported by NSF Grants CNS-1908181, CNS-1414023, and the Office of Naval Research Grant N00014-19-1-2294. Aarushi Goel is also supported in part by NSF Grants CNS-1653110 and CNS-1801479 and the Office of Naval Research under contract N00014-19-1-2292.

# References

- <span id="page-30-1"></span>[ABT18] Benny Applebaum, Zvika Brakerski, and Rotem Tsabary. Perfect secure computation in two rounds. In Amos Beimel and Stefan Dziembowski, editors, *TCC 2018, Part I*, volume 11239 of *LNCS*, pages 152–174. Springer, Heidelberg, November 2018.
- <span id="page-30-2"></span>[ABT19] Benny Applebaum, Zvika Brakerski, and Rotem Tsabary. Degree 2 is complete for the round-complexity of malicious MPC. In Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2019*, *Part II*, volume 11477 of *LNCS*, pages 504–531. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2019.
- <span id="page-30-0"></span>[ACGJ18] Prabhanjan Ananth, Arka Rai Choudhuri, Aarushi Goel, and Abhishek Jain. Round-optimal secure multiparty computation with honest majority. In Hovav Shacham and Alexandra Boldyreva, editors, *CRYPTO 2018, Part II*, volume 10992 of *LNCS*, pages 395–424. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2018.
- <span id="page-30-3"></span>[ACGJ19] Prabhanjan Ananth, Arka Rai Choudhuri, Aarushi Goel, and Abhishek Jain. Two round information-theoretic MPC with malicious security. In Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen, editors, *EURO-CRYPT 2019*, *Part II*, volume 11477 of *LNCS*, pages 532–561. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2019.
- <span id="page-30-4"></span>[BCP15] Elette Boyle, Kai-Min Chung, and Rafael Pass. Large-scale secure computation: Multi-party computation for (parallel) RAM programs. In Rosario Gennaro and Matthew J. B. Robshaw, editors, *CRYPTO 2015, Part II*, volume 9216 of *LNCS*, pages 742–762. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2015.
- <span id="page-30-5"></span>[BGT13] Elette Boyle, Shafi Goldwasser, and Stefano Tessaro. Communication locality in secure multiparty computation - how to run sublinear algorithms in a distributed setting. In Amit Sahai, editor, *TCC 2013*, volume 7785 of *LNCS*, pages 356–376. Springer, Heidelberg, March 2013.

{31}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-31-1"></span>[BGW88] Michael Ben-Or, Shafi Goldwasser, and Avi Wigderson. Completeness theorems for noncryptographic fault-tolerant distributed computation (extended abstract). In *20th ACM STOC*, pages 1–10. ACM Press, May 1988.
- <span id="page-31-7"></span>[Bit17] Nir Bitansky. Verifiable random functions from non-interactive witness-indistinguishable proofs. In Yael Kalai and Leonid Reyzin, editors, *TCC 2017, Part II*, volume 10678 of *LNCS*, pages 567–594. Springer, Heidelberg, November 2017.
- <span id="page-31-3"></span>[BL18] Fabrice Benhamouda and Huijia Lin. k-round multiparty computation from k-round oblivious transfer via garbled interactive circuits. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen, editors, *EURO-CRYPT 2018, Part II*, volume 10821 of *LNCS*, pages 500–532. Springer, Heidelberg, April / May 2018.
- <span id="page-31-4"></span>[BMR90] Donald Beaver, Silvio Micali, and Phillip Rogaway. The round complexity of secure protocols (extended abstract). In *22nd ACM STOC*, pages 503–513. ACM Press, May 1990.
- <span id="page-31-2"></span>[CCD88] David Chaum, Claude Crepeau, and Ivan Damg ´ ard. Multiparty unconditionally secure protocols ˚ (extended abstract). In *20th ACM STOC*, pages 11–19. ACM Press, May 1988.
- <span id="page-31-0"></span>[CCH+19] R Canetti, Y Chen, J Holmgren, A Lombardi, GN Rothblum, RD Rothblum, and D Wichs. Fiat– shamir: from practice to theory. STOC, 2019.
- <span id="page-31-12"></span>[CDI05] Ronald Cramer, Ivan Damgard, and Yuval Ishai. Share conversion, pseudorandom secret-sharing and ˚ applications to secure computation. In Joe Kilian, editor, *TCC 2005*, volume 3378 of *LNCS*, pages 342–362. Springer, Heidelberg, February 2005.
- <span id="page-31-8"></span>[CDI+13] Gil Cohen, Ivan Bjerre Damgard, Yuval Ishai, Jonas K ˚ olker, Peter Bro Miltersen, Ran Raz, and Ron D ¨ Rothblum. Efficient multiparty protocols via log-depth threshold formulae. In *Annual Cryptology Conference*, pages 185–202. Springer, 2013.
- <span id="page-31-13"></span>[DI05] Ivan Damgard and Yuval Ishai. Constant-round multiparty computation using a black-box pseudo- ˚ random generator. In Victor Shoup, editor, *CRYPTO 2005*, volume 3621 of *LNCS*, pages 378–394. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2005.
- <span id="page-31-9"></span>[DI06] Ivan Damgard and Yuval Ishai. Scalable secure multiparty computation. In Cynthia Dwork, editor, ˚ *CRYPTO 2006*, volume 4117 of *LNCS*, pages 501–520. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2006.
- <span id="page-31-5"></span>[DIK+08] Ivan Damgard, Yuval Ishai, Mikkel Krøigaard, Jesper Buus Nielsen, and Adam Smith. Scalable mul- ˚ tiparty computation with nearly optimal work and resilience. In David Wagner, editor, *CRYPTO 2008*, volume 5157 of *LNCS*, pages 241–261. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2008.
- <span id="page-31-6"></span>[DIK10] Ivan Damgard, Yuval Ishai, and Mikkel Krøigaard. Perfectly secure multiparty computation and the ˚ computational overhead of cryptography. In Henri Gilbert, editor, *EUROCRYPT 2010*, volume 6110 of *LNCS*, pages 445–465. Springer, Heidelberg, May / June 2010.
- <span id="page-31-11"></span>[DKM+17] Varsha Dani, Valerie King, Mahnush Movahedi, Jared Saia, and Mahdi Zamani. Secure multi-party computation in large networks. *Distributed Computing*, 30(3):193–229, 2017.
- <span id="page-31-10"></span>[DKMS12] Varsha Dani, Valerie King, Mahnush Movahedi, and Jared Saia. Brief announcement: breaking the o(nm) bit barrier, secure multiparty computation with a static adversary. In *ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, PODC '12, Funchal, Madeira, Portugal, July 16-18, 2012*, pages 227–228, 2012.

{32}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-32-11"></span>[DKMS14] Varsha Dani, Valerie King, Mahnush Movahedi, and Jared Saia. Quorums quicken queries: Efficient asynchronous secure multiparty computation. In *ICDCN*, volume 8314 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 242–256. Springer, 2014.
- <span id="page-32-10"></span>[DN07] Ivan Damgard and Jesper Buus Nielsen. Scalable and unconditionally secure multiparty computa- ˚ tion. In Alfred Menezes, editor, *CRYPTO 2007*, volume 4622 of *LNCS*, pages 572–590. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2007.
- <span id="page-32-8"></span>[Fei99] Uriel Feige. Noncryptographic selection protocols. In *40th FOCS*, pages 142–153. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 1999.
- <span id="page-32-0"></span>[FS87] Amos Fiat and Adi Shamir. How to prove yourself: Practical solutions to identification and signature problems. In Andrew M. Odlyzko, editor, *CRYPTO'86*, volume 263 of *LNCS*, pages 186–194. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1987.
- <span id="page-32-9"></span>[GGHR14] Sanjam Garg, Craig Gentry, Shai Halevi, and Mariana Raykova. Two-round secure MPC from indistinguishability obfuscation. In Yehuda Lindell, editor, *TCC 2014*, volume 8349 of *LNCS*, pages 74–94. Springer, Heidelberg, February 2014.
- <span id="page-32-7"></span>[GHKW17] Rishab Goyal, Susan Hohenberger, Venkata Koppula, and Brent Waters. A generic approach to constructing and proving verifiable random functions. In Yael Kalai and Leonid Reyzin, editors, *TCC 2017, Part II*, volume 10678 of *LNCS*, pages 537–566. Springer, Heidelberg, November 2017.
- <span id="page-32-6"></span>[GHM+17] Yossi Gilad, Rotem Hemo, Silvio Micali, Georgios Vlachos, and Nickolai Zeldovich. Algorand: Scaling byzantine agreements for cryptocurrencies. In *Proceedings of the 26th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, Shanghai, China, October 28-31, 2017*, pages 51–68, 2017.
- <span id="page-32-4"></span>[GIP15] Daniel Genkin, Yuval Ishai, and Antigoni Polychroniadou. Efficient multi-party computation: From passive to active security via secure SIMD circuits. In Rosario Gennaro and Matthew J. B. Robshaw, editors, *CRYPTO 2015, Part II*, volume 9216 of *LNCS*, pages 721–741. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2015.
- <span id="page-32-3"></span>[GIS18] Sanjam Garg, Yuval Ishai, and Akshayaram Srinivasan. Two-round MPC: Information-theoretic and black-box. In Amos Beimel and Stefan Dziembowski, editors, *TCC 2018, Part I*, volume 11239 of *LNCS*, pages 123–151. Springer, Heidelberg, November 2018.
- <span id="page-32-1"></span>[GMW87] Oded Goldreich, Silvio Micali, and Avi Wigderson. How to play any mental game or A completeness theorem for protocols with honest majority. In Alfred Aho, editor, *19th ACM STOC*, pages 218–229. ACM Press, May 1987.
- <span id="page-32-12"></span>[Gol04] Oded Goldreich. *The Foundations of Cryptography - Volume 2, Basic Applications*. Cambridge University Press, 2004.
- <span id="page-32-13"></span>[GOS12] Jens Groth, Rafail Ostrovsky, and Amit Sahai. New techniques for noninteractive zero-knowledge. *J. ACM*, 59(3):11:1–11:35, 2012.
- <span id="page-32-2"></span>[GS18] Sanjam Garg and Akshayaram Srinivasan. Two-round multiparty secure computation from minimal assumptions. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2018, Part II*, volume 10821 of *LNCS*, pages 468–499. Springer, Heidelberg, April / May 2018.
- <span id="page-32-5"></span>[HLP11] Shai Halevi, Yehuda Lindell, and Benny Pinkas. Secure computation on the web: Computing without simultaneous interaction. In Phillip Rogaway, editor, *CRYPTO 2011*, volume 6841 of *LNCS*, pages 132–150. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2011.

{33}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-33-4"></span>[HM00] Martin Hirt and Ueli Maurer. Player simulation and general adversary structures in perfect multiparty computation. *Journal of cryptology*, 13(1):31–60, 2000.
- <span id="page-33-6"></span>[HN06] Martin Hirt and Jesper Buus Nielsen. Robust multiparty computation with linear communication complexity. In Cynthia Dwork, editor, *CRYPTO 2006*, volume 4117 of *LNCS*, pages 463–482. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2006.
- <span id="page-33-9"></span>[IK00] Yuval Ishai and Eyal Kushilevitz. Randomizing polynomials: A new representation with applications to round-efficient secure computation. In *41st FOCS*, pages 294–304. IEEE Computer Society Press, November 2000.
- <span id="page-33-5"></span>[IKOS09] Yuval Ishai, Eyal Kushilevitz, Rafail Ostrovsky, and Amit Sahai. Zero-knowledge proofs from secure multiparty computation. *SIAM J. Comput.*, 39(3):1121–1152, 2009.
- <span id="page-33-3"></span>[IKP10] Yuval Ishai, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Anat Paskin. Secure multiparty computation with minimal interaction. In Tal Rabin, editor, *CRYPTO 2010*, volume 6223 of *LNCS*, pages 577–594. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2010.
- <span id="page-33-2"></span>[MRV99] Silvio Micali, Michael O. Rabin, and Salil P. Vadhan. Verifiable random functions. In *40th FOCS*, pages 120–130. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 1999.
- <span id="page-33-0"></span>[PS19] Chris Peikert and Sina Shiehian. Noninteractive zero knowledge for np from (plain) learning with errors. Technical report, Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/158, 2019. https://eprint. iacr. org . . . , 2019.
- <span id="page-33-8"></span>[SZ15] Jared Saia and Mahdi Zamani. Recent results in scalable multi-party computation. In *SOFSEM 2015: Theory and Practice of Computer Science - 41st International Conference on Current Trends in Theory and Practice of Computer Science, Pec pod Sneˇzkou, Czech Republic, January 24-29, 2015. ˇ Proceedings*, pages 24–44, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-1"></span>[Yao86] Andrew Chi-Chih Yao. How to generate and exchange secrets. In *Foundations of Computer Science, 1986., 27th Annual Symposium on*, pages 162–167. IEEE, 1986.
- <span id="page-33-7"></span>[ZMS14] Mahdi Zamani, Mahnush Movahedi, and Jared Saia. Millions of millionaires: Multiparty computation in large networks. *IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive*, 2014:149, 2014.

{34}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-34-0"></span>Appendix A Preliminaries

# <span id="page-34-1"></span>A.1 Secure Multi-Party Computation

A secure multi-party computation protocol is a protocol executed by n parties P1, · · · , P<sup>n</sup> for a n-party functionality F. We allow for parties to exchange messages simultaneously. In every round, every party is allowed to broadcast messages to all parties. A protocol is said to have k *rounds* if the number of rounds in the protocol is k. We require that at the end of the protocol, all the parties receive the output F(x1, . . . , xn), where x<sup>i</sup> is the i th party's input.

### <span id="page-34-2"></span>A.1.1 Adversarial Behavior

One of the primary goals in secure computation is to protect the honest parties against dishonest behavior from the corrupted parties. This is usually modeled using a central adversarial entity, that controls the set of corrupted parties and instructs them how to operate. That is, the adversary obtains the views of the corrupted parties, consisting of their inputs, random tapes and incoming messages, and provides them with the messages that they are to send in the execution of the protocol. In our protocols we only consider the case where the adversary can only control a minority of the parties in the protocol. In our protocols we consider the following adversarial models:

- 1. Semi-Honest Adversaries: A semi-honest adversary always follows the instructions of the protocol. This is an "honest but curious" adversarial model, where the adversary might try to learn extra information by analyzing the transcript of the protocol later.
- 2. Fail-Stop Adversaries: A non-rushing fail-stop adversary instructs the corrupted parties to follow the protocol as a semi-honest adversary, but it may also instruct a corrupted party to halt early. The decision to abort or not may depend on its view.

We consider security with abort against semi-honest adversaries and guaranteed output delivery against fail-stop adversaries, to elaborate on these security notions, we define the real and ideal process below.

IDEAL PROCESS: This process is defined with respect to a trusted party. A subset of parties can be corrupted by a PPT ideal process adversary Sim. The process proceeds in the following steps:

- 1. Input Distribution: The environment distributes the inputs x1, . . . , x<sup>n</sup> to parties P1, . . . , P<sup>n</sup> respectively.
- 2. Inputs to Trusted Party: The parties now send their inputs to the trusted party. The honest parties send the same input, it received from the environment, to the trusted party.
- 3. Trusted party answers party P<sup>i</sup> : The trusted party sends the i th output y<sup>i</sup> , where F(x 0 1 , . . . , x<sup>0</sup> n ) = (y1, . . . , yn) to P<sup>i</sup> .
- 4. Output: If the honest party P<sup>i</sup> is honest, then it outputs y<sup>i</sup> . The adversarial party Sim outputs its entire view.

We denote the adversary participating in the above protocol to be Sim. We define IdealSim,F (x1, . . . , xn) to be the joint distribution defined over the views of the adversary and the outputs of the honest parties.

REAL PROCESS: Fix a set of inputs (x1, . . . , xn), where x<sup>i</sup> ∈ {0, 1} `i . Party P<sup>i</sup> receives the input x<sup>i</sup> . All the parties then execute the protocol Π. A subset of parties S is controlled by an adversary A. As in the ideal process, they receive inputs from the environment.

We define RealA,F (x1, . . . , xn) to be the joint distribution over the outputs of the adversary and the honest party.

{35}------------------------------------------------

**Security with Abort.** We say that  $\Pi$  is a computationally secure against semi-honest adversaries if for every n.u. PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  controlling a subset of parties S in the real process, there exists a PPT adversary Sim in the ideal process such that:

$$\mathsf{Ideal}^{\mathsf{Sim},F}(x_1,\ldots,x_n) \approx_{s,\varepsilon} \mathsf{Real}^{\mathcal{A},F}(x_1,\ldots,x_n)$$

We only consider the honest majority setting, where the adversary only controls a minority of the parties.

**Client-Server Model.** We describe a related notion of the client-server model (see [CDI05, DI05, DI06] for details), each party can have one of two different roles: *clients* that hold inputs and get outputs, and *servers* who may be involved in the computation but hold no inputs and get no outputs.

Note that every protocol in the client-server model can be stated as a protocol in the standard MPC model by asking every party to play a single client and a single server. We consider a setting where a subset of the parties will play the role of both a client and a server, while the remaining parties play only the role of a client.

#### <span id="page-35-0"></span>**A.2** Garbled Circuits

**Definition 1** (Garbling Scheme). A garbling scheme for circuits is a tuple of PPT algorithms GC := (Gen, Garble, Eval) such that

- $(\{\mathsf{lab}^{w,b}\}_{w \in \mathsf{inp}, b \in \{0,1\}}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda}, \mathsf{inp})$ : Garble takes the security parameter  $1^{\lambda}$  and length of input for the circuit as input and outputs a set of input labels  $\{\mathsf{lab}^{w,b}\}_{w \in \mathsf{inp}, b \in \{0,1\}}$ .
- $-\widetilde{C} \leftarrow \mathsf{Garble}(C, \{\mathsf{lab}^{w,b}\}_{w \in \mathsf{inp}, b \in \{0,1\}})$ :  $\mathsf{Garble}\ takes\ as\ input\ a\ circuit\ C: \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{inp}} \to \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{out}}\ and\ a\ set\ of\ input\ labels\ \{\mathsf{lab}^{w,b}\}_{w \in \mathsf{inp}, b \in \{0,1\}}\ and\ outputs\ the\ garbled\ circuit\ \widetilde{C}.$
- $-y \leftarrow \operatorname{Eval}(\widetilde{C}, \operatorname{lab}^x)$ : Eval takes as input the garbled circuit  $\widetilde{C}$ , input labels  $\operatorname{lab}^x$  corresponding to the input  $x \in \{0,1\}^{\operatorname{inp}}$  and outputs  $y \in \{0,1\}^{\operatorname{out}}$ .

This garbling scheme satisfies the following properties:

1. Correctness: For any circuit C and input  $x \in \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{inp}}$ ,

$$\Pr[C(x) = \mathsf{Eval}(\widetilde{C}, \mathsf{lab}^x)] = 1$$

where 
$$(\{\mathsf{lab}^{w,b}\}_{w \in \mathsf{inp}, b \in \{0,1\}}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda}, \mathsf{inp}) \ and \ \widetilde{C} \leftarrow \mathsf{Garble}(C, \{\mathsf{lab}^{w,b}\}_{w \in \mathsf{inp}, b \in \{0,1\}}).$$

2. **Security:** There exists a PPT simulator  $Sim_{GC}$  such that, for any PPT adversary A, there exists a negligible function  $\mu(.)$  such that,

$$|\Pr[\mathsf{Exp}_{A,\lambda_{CC}}(1^{\lambda},0)=1] - \Pr[\mathsf{Exp}_{A,\lambda_{CC}}(1^{\lambda},1)=1]| \le \mu(\lambda)$$

where the experiment  $Exp_{A,Sim_{GC}}(1^{\lambda}, b)$  is defined as follows:

(a) The adversary A specifies the circuit C and an input  $x \in \{0,1\}^{\mathsf{inp}}$  and gets  $\widetilde{C}$  and  $\mathsf{lab}^x$ , which are computed as follows:

$$\begin{split} - & \textit{If } b = 0 \text{:} \\ & - (\{\mathsf{lab}^{w,b}\}_{w \in \mathsf{inp}, b \in \{0,1\}}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda}, \mathsf{inp}) \\ & - \widetilde{C} \leftarrow \mathsf{Garble}(C, \{\mathsf{lab}^{w,b}\}_{w \in \mathsf{inp}, b \in \{0,1\}}) \\ - & \textit{If } b = 1 \text{:} \\ & - (\widetilde{C}, \mathsf{lab}^x) \leftarrow \mathsf{Sim}_{\mathsf{GC}}(1^{1^{\lambda}}, C, x) \end{split}$$

(b) The adversary outputs a bit b', which is the output of the experiment.

{36}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-36-0"></span>**A.3** Pseudorandom Generators

**Definition 2** (Psedudorandom Generators). A deterministic function PRG :  $\{0,1\}^{\lambda} \to \{0,1\}^{p(\lambda)}$  is called a pseudorandom generator (PRG) if:

- 1. (efficiency): PRG can be computed in polynomial time
- 2. (expansion):  $p(\lambda) > \lambda$
- 3.  $\{x \leftarrow \{0,1\}^{\lambda} : \mathsf{PRG}(x)\} \approx_c \{U_{p(\lambda)}\}\$ , where  $U_{p(\lambda)}$  is the uniform distribution over  $p(\lambda)$  bits.

## <span id="page-36-1"></span>**A.4** Message Authentication Code

We define unconditional message authentication code (MAC) scheme as presented in [IKP10].

**Definition 3** (Unconditional Message Authentication Codes). An unconditional  $\varepsilon$ -secure message authentication code (MAC) scheme consists of a pair of deterministic algorithms MAC(k, m) and Verify(k, m, tag) and corresponding domains K, M. It satisfies:

**Correctness.** For any  $k \in \mathcal{K}$ ,  $m \in \mathcal{M}$  and tag  $\leftarrow \mathsf{MAC}(k, m)$ , we have  $\mathsf{Verify}(k, m, \mathsf{tag}) = 1$ .

**Integrity.** For any  $m \in \mathcal{M}$ , for any (possibly unbounded) algorithm  $\mathcal{A}$ ,

$$\Pr_{k \leftrightarrow \$\mathcal{K}} \left[ \mathsf{tag} \leftarrow \mathsf{MAC}(k, m), \mathcal{A}(m, \mathsf{tag}) = ((m', \mathsf{tag}') \neq (m, \mathsf{tag})) \middle| \mathsf{Verify}(k, m, \mathsf{tag}) = 1 \right] \leq \varepsilon$$

# <span id="page-36-2"></span>**Appendix B** Detailed Complexity Calculation

We compute the complexity of the main components of the protocols prsented in the technical sections. Unless otherwise specified, the below calculations correspond to the total communication complexity of the corresponding protocol.

Let the total number of parties by n, and s be the size of the circuit implementing the function  $\mathcal{F}$  the parties are computing. Correspondingly, let W(n,s) be the total computational work of a (potentially large round) protocol computing the function. We use the  $\widetilde{O}$  notation where convenient to avoid notational clutter. We compute the compiler of [ACGJ18, ABT18, ABT19] to have complexity  $O(n^{\tau}\lambda W(n,s))$  where  $\tau\geq 2$ . For W(n,s) we instantiate the above compilers with protocols that have the following total computational work (a)  $\widetilde{O}(s+nd)$  in the *semi-honest* setting [DIK10] where d is the depth of the circuit; and (b)  $\widetilde{O}(s+nd+n^2)$  in the *malicious* setting [GIP15].

## <span id="page-36-3"></span>**B.1** Protocol in the Client-Server Model

As discussed in the technical sections, the number of servers are denoted by  $\mathbf{n}$  and the number of clients by  $\mathbf{n}$ .

**Complexity Computing**  $\mathcal{F}_{aug}$ : This functionality is only computed by the servers. As a first step note that the functionality  $\mathcal{F}_{aug}$  adds additional components to the circuit computing  $\mathcal{F}$ , namely to collect secret shares and check the MAC tags. For the semi-honest setting, there is no need to perform MAC checks, thus the resulting size of the circuits are:

```
semi-honest: |\mathsf{ckt}_{\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{aug}}}| = s + m\mathbf{n}

malicious: |\mathsf{ckt}_{\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{aug}}}| = s + m^2\mathbf{n}\lambda

\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{aug}} is computed by running special MPC \Pi_{\mathsf{aug}} with \mathbf{n} servers resulting in the following complexities: semi-honest: \widetilde{O}(\mathbf{n}^{\tau}\lambda W(\mathbf{n}, s + \mathbf{n}\mathbf{n}))

malicious: \widetilde{O}(\mathbf{n}^{\tau}\lambda W(\mathbf{n}, s + \mathbf{n}^2\mathbf{n}\lambda))
```

{37}------------------------------------------------

Complexity Computing  $\mathcal{F}_{help}$ : This functionality is computed by a protocol that is run by all parties, and is for the servers to get labels corresponding to the masked input of the client. In fact, there are  $\mathbf{n} \cdot \mathbf{n}$  instances of the protocol that are computed. Below, we compute the complexity of a single instance of the protocol. It should be noted that this functionality can be represented as a polynomial of degree 2 over the inputs. The size of the circuit corresponding to a single instance of  $\mathcal{F}_{help}$  is determined by the size of the client's inputs which again are different in the two case:

```
semi-honest: |\mathsf{ckt}_{\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{help}}}| = \mathtt{m} \cdot \lambda
malicious: |\mathsf{ckt}_{\mathcal{F}_{\mathsf{help}}}| = \mathtt{m}\lambda + \mathtt{m} \cdot (\mathtt{m}\lambda^2) = O(\mathtt{m}^2\lambda^2)
```

The corresponding costs for all  $n \cdot n$  instances are presented below.

**semi-honest:** For the semi-honest case, this can be computed by simply running the protocol present in [IK00] for computing degree 2 polynomials, which results in a  $n^2$  multiplicative overhead giving a total of  $\mathbf{m}\mathbf{n} \cdot (n^2\mathbf{m}\lambda) = O(\mathbf{m}^2\mathbf{n}n^2\lambda)$ .

**malicious:** For the malicious setting, we use the compiler from [ACGJ18, ABT19] to give us a total of  $\mathbf{n} \cdot \mathbf{n} \cdot \widetilde{O}(n^{\tau}\lambda W(n,\mathbf{n}^2\lambda^2+\mathbf{n}\lambda))$ . Instantiating the underlying compiler with [DIK10, GIP15], for the circuit of depth  $2^{14}$  we have  $W(n,\mathbf{n}^2\lambda^2+\mathbf{n}\lambda)=\widetilde{O}(\mathbf{n}^2\lambda^2+\mathbf{n}\lambda+n^2)^{15}$ . Giving a total of  $\mathbf{n}\cdot\mathbf{n}\cdot\widetilde{O}(n^{\tau}\lambda\widetilde{O}(\mathbf{n}^2\lambda^2+\mathbf{n}\lambda+n^2))=\widetilde{O}(n^{\tau}\mathbf{n}^3\mathbf{n}\lambda^3+\mathbf{n}\mathbf{n}n^{\tau+2}\lambda)$ .

Since the main goal is to compute the complexity of the protocol in the plain model, there is no need to compute the total complexity of this protocol but this can be obtained by simply adding the above computed complexities.

### <span id="page-37-0"></span>**B.2** Protocol in the Plain Model

Let's compute the total complexity of the protocol in the plain model. Recall that in this setting multiple first round instances of each protocol are computed since parties are unaware of their roles in the protocol.

Communication complexity computing  $\mathcal{F}_{mOT}$ : The protocol computing this functionality is run by all the parties for the servers to send across the labels corresponding to the PRG seed. As in the previous subsection, the circuit sizes of the functionalities are presented below. But unlike the previous section, the circuit size remains the same for both semi-honest and malicious:  $|\mathsf{ckt}_{\mathcal{F}_{mOT}}| = n\lambda^2 + \lambda$ . There are  $n^2$  instance of  $\Pi_{mOT}$  that are run.

The corresponding complexities for each is now calculated identically as in the previous section and we provide only the result below (skipping intermediate steps):

```
semi-honest: n^2\lambda(\ln\lambda^2 + \lambda) = O(n^2\ln\lambda^3)
malicious: n^{\tau}\lambda\widetilde{O}(\ln\lambda^2 + \lambda + n^2) = \widetilde{O}(n^{\tau}\ln\lambda^3 + n^{\tau+2}\lambda)
```

Each client (resp. server) computes  $\mathbf{n}$  (resp.  $\mathbf{n}$ ) first round  $\Pi_{mOT}$  messages for *each* instance of  $\Pi_{mOT}$  since they don't know their own role in the protocol. Therefore, the total number of first round messages computed by all parties:  $\mathbf{n}(\mathbf{n}\mathbf{n}^2) + \mathbf{n}(\mathbf{n}\mathbf{n}^2) = \mathbf{n}^2\mathbf{n}^2 + \mathbf{n}^4$ . Correspondingly, the total cost for all  $\Pi_{mOT}$  messages is  $(\mathbf{n}^2\mathbf{n}^2 + \mathbf{n}^4) \cdot (\text{cost of 1 instance of } \Pi_{mOT})$  which is calculated for the two cases below:

```
semi-honest: (\mathbf{n}^2\mathbf{n}^2 + \mathbf{n}^4) \cdot O(n^2\mathbf{n}\lambda^3) = O(n^2\mathbf{n}^3\mathbf{n}^2\lambda^3 + n^2\mathbf{n}^5\lambda^3)
malicious: (\mathbf{n}^2\mathbf{n}^2 + \mathbf{n}^4) \cdot \widetilde{O}(n^{\tau}\mathbf{n}\lambda^3 + n^{\tau+2}\lambda)
```

Communication complexity computing  $f_{c-s}$ : In addition to the  $\Pi_{mOT}$ , the primary work is in computing the client server protocol  $\Pi_{c-s}$ . In this case too servers and clients compute multiple copies of the protocol messages. But unlike the  $\Pi_{mOT}$ , the computation and communication is not symmetric across the roles of the parties, i.e. clients are servers have different cost. The costs for clients and servers are computed below:

**clients:** This comes from the clients running *only* the helper functionality  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}}$  in the client-server setting. Each client computes  $\mathbf{n}$  messages for each instance giving  $\mathbf{n}$  · (total cost of client messages in  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}}$ ), which is calculated for each case below

<span id="page-37-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>14</sup>Only compute a circuit of degree 2

<span id="page-37-2"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>15</sup>Ignoring logarithmic factors in n

{38}------------------------------------------------

semi-honest:  $\mathbf{n} \cdot O(\mathbf{n}^2 n \mathbf{n}^2 \lambda^3) = O(\mathbf{n}^2 n \mathbf{n}^3 \lambda^3)$ malicious:  $\mathbf{n} \cdot \widetilde{O}(n^{\tau-1} \mathbf{n}^3 \mathbf{n}^2 \lambda^3 + \mathbf{n} \mathbf{n}^2 n^{\tau+1} \lambda)$ 

**servers:** This comes from the servers running *both* the helper functionality  $\Pi_{\mathsf{help}}$  and  $\Pi_{f_{\mathsf{aug}}}$  in the client-server setting. Each server computes  $\mathbf{m}$  messages for each instance giving  $\mathbf{m} \cdot (\mathsf{total} \; \mathsf{cost} \; \mathsf{of} \; \mathsf{server} \; \mathsf{messages} \; \mathsf{in} \; \Pi_{\mathsf{help}} + \mathsf{total} \; \mathsf{cost} \; \mathsf{of} \; \mathsf{server} \; \mathsf{messages} \; \mathsf{in} \; \Pi_{f_{\mathsf{aug}}})$ 

semi-honest: 
$$\mathbf{n} \cdot \widetilde{O}(\mathbf{n}^3 n \mathbf{n} \lambda^3 + \mathbf{n}^{\tau} W \lambda) = \widetilde{O}(\mathbf{n}^4 n \mathbf{n} \lambda^3 + \mathbf{n}^{\tau+1} W \lambda)$$
  
malicious:  $\mathbf{n} \cdot (\widetilde{O}(n^{\tau-1} \mathbf{n}^4 \mathbf{n} \lambda^3 + \mathbf{n}^2 \mathbf{n} n^{\tau+1} \lambda) + \mathbf{n}^{\tau} W \lambda)$ 

Since the costs are dominated by the first round message, the total communication costs are provided below by summing up the above costs, setting  $\mathbf{n} \approx n$ ,  $\mathbf{n} = k = \log^2(n)$  and finally using the  $\widetilde{O}$  notation

**semi-honest:** The work is W(k, s + kn),

$$\begin{split} O(n^2 \mathbf{n}^3 \mathbf{n}^2 \lambda^3 + n^2 \mathbf{n}^5 \lambda^3) + O(\mathbf{n}^2 n \mathbf{n}^3 \lambda^3) + \widetilde{O}(\mathbf{n}^4 n \mathbf{n} \lambda^3 + \mathbf{n}^{\tau + 1} W \lambda) \\ &= \widetilde{O}(n^2 k^5 \lambda^3 + n^4 k^3 \lambda^3 + k^2 n^4 \lambda^3 + k^4 n^2 \lambda^3 + k^{\tau + 1} W(k, s + k n) \lambda) \\ &= \widetilde{O}(W(k, s + k n) k^{\tau + 1} \lambda + n^4 k^3 \lambda^3) \\ &= \widetilde{O}((W(k, s + k n) k^{\tau - 2} + n^4 \lambda^2) k^3 \lambda) \\ &= \widetilde{O}(W(\log^2(n), s + n \log^2(n)) + n^4) \end{split}$$

For most known instantiations for W, this results in  $\widetilde{O}(W(\log^2(n), s) + n^4)$ 

**malicious:** The work is  $W(k, s + k^2 n\lambda)$ ,

$$\begin{split} (\mathbf{n}^2 \mathbf{n}^2 + \mathbf{n}^4) \cdot \widetilde{O}(n^\tau \mathbf{n} \lambda^3 + n^{\tau + 2} \lambda) + \mathbf{n} \cdot \widetilde{O}(n^{\tau - 1} \mathbf{n}^3 \mathbf{n}^2 \lambda^3 + \mathbf{n} \mathbf{n}^2 n^{\tau + 1} \lambda) \\ &\quad + \mathbf{n} \cdot (\widetilde{O}(n^{\tau - 1} \mathbf{n}^4 \mathbf{n} \lambda^3 + \mathbf{n}^2 \mathbf{n} n^{\tau + 1} \lambda) + \mathbf{n}^\tau W \lambda) \\ &= \widetilde{O}(n^{\tau + 4} k^2 \lambda + n^{\tau + 2} k^3 \lambda^3 + n^{\tau + 4} k \lambda) + \widetilde{O}(n^\tau k^5 \lambda^3 + n^{\tau + 2} k^3 \lambda) + k^{\tau + 1} \lambda W(k, s + k^2 n \lambda) \\ &= \widetilde{O}(W(k, s + k^2 n \lambda) k^{\tau + 1} \lambda + n^{\tau + 4} k^2 \lambda + n^{\tau + 2} k^3 \lambda^3) \\ &= \widetilde{O}(W(\log^2(n), s + n \log^4(n) \lambda) + n^{\tau + 4}) \end{split}$$

As before, for most known instantiations for W, this results in  $\widetilde{O}(W(\log^2(n), s) + n^{\tau+4})$ .