

{0}------------------------------------------------

# On the Complexity of Interactive Arguments

Idan Baril∗† Iftach Haitner‡†

February 19, 2026

#### Abstract

We study the minimal hardness assumptions required for constructing interactive arguments for NP, focusing on succinct arguments—where the prover's total communication is smaller than the witness size—and on relaxed forms of zero knowledge, such as witness indistinguishability. Known constructions of succinct arguments rely on various types of collision-resistant hash functions, indistinguishability obfuscation, hardness of discrete logarithm, and lattice-based assumptions, while known constructions of witness-indistinguishable arguments require one-way functions (OWFs). This suggests that succinct witness-indistinguishable interactive arguments require OWFs, or equivalently, that the existence of such arguments implies that of OWFs.

Nevertheless, we prove that, at least as far as fully black-box reductions are concerned, interactive arguments do not imply OWFs. Specifically, we consider assumption-dependent fully black-box reductions from OWFs to succinct witness-indistinguishable interactive arguments and an additional hardness assumption G (e.g., NP ̸⊆ P/poly). Such a reduction is a pair (f, R) of (oracle-aided) function f and algorithm R such that, for any witness-indistinguishable interactive argument Π = (P,V) and any inverter Inv of f <sup>Π</sup>, the algorithm R <sup>Π</sup>,Inv breaks either the soundness of Π or the assumption G. We prove that the existence of such a reduction implies a black-box reduction from OWFs to G alone. Namely, beyond what is implied by G, succinct witness-indistinguishable interactive arguments have no black-box implications for the existence of OWFs.

<sup>∗</sup>The Blavatnik School of Computer Science, Tel Aviv University. E-mail:idan@baril.co.il.

<sup>†</sup>Research supported by ISF grant 836/23.

<sup>‡</sup>Stellar Development Foundation and The Blavatnik School of Computer Science, Tel Aviv University. Email:iftachh@gmail.com.

{1}------------------------------------------------

# Contents

| 1 |     | Introduction<br>1                                                        |
|---|-----|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   | 1.1 | Our Results<br><br>1                                                     |
|   | 1.2 | Our Technique<br><br>3                                                   |
|   |     | 1.2.1<br>Handling Arbitrary Reductions<br><br>5                          |
|   |     | 1.2.2<br>Zero Knowledge<br><br>6                                         |
|   | 1.3 | Related Work<br><br>6                                                    |
| 2 |     | Preliminaries<br>7                                                       |
|   | 2.1 | Notation<br><br>7                                                        |
|   | 2.2 | Many-wise Independent Hashing<br><br>8                                   |
|   | 2.3 | One-way Functions<br><br>8                                               |
|   |     | 2.3.1<br>Weak to Strong One-way Functions<br><br>9                       |
|   | 2.4 | Interactive Arguments<br><br>9                                           |
|   |     | 2.4.1<br>Zero Knowledge and Witness Hiding<br><br>9                      |
|   | 2.5 | Games<br><br>10                                                          |
|   |     | 2.5.1<br>Three Games of Interest<br><br>10                               |
| 3 |     | Emulating Assumption-Dependent Reductions to Interactive Arguments<br>11 |
|   | 3.1 | Assumption-Dependent Reductions<br><br>11                                |
|   | 3.2 | Emulating Assumption-Dependent Reductions<br><br>12                      |
|   | 3.3 | Proof for Length-Preserving Reductions<br><br>13                         |
|   |     | 3.3.1<br>The Interactive Argument<br><br>13                              |
|   |     | 3.3.2<br>The Function<br>g<br><br>16                                     |
|   |     | 3.3.3<br>The Reduction<br>16                                             |
|   |     | Rb<br>3.3.4<br>Putting it Together<br><br>18                             |
|   | 3.4 | Proof for Arbitrary Reductions<br><br>18                                 |
|   |     | 3.4.1<br>The Interactive Argument<br><br>18                              |
|   |     | Π                                                                        |
|   |     | 3.4.2<br>The Query Function of<br>f<br>22                                |
|   |     | 3.4.3<br>The Punctured Argument<br><br>23                                |
|   |     | 3.4.4<br>The Function<br>g<br><br>25                                     |
|   |     | 3.4.5<br>The Reduction<br>Rb<br>25                                       |
|   |     | 3.4.6<br>Putting it Together<br><br>27                                   |
|   |     | 3.4.7<br>Missing proofs<br><br>27                                        |
|   | 3.5 | Reductions from Auxiliary-Input One-Way Functions<br><br>28              |

{2}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-2-0"></span>1 Introduction

In an interactive argument for NP, the prover, holding the witness, interacts with the verifier to convince it of the validity of a statement given as a common input. We require the protocol to be sound: even a malicious efficient prover cannot make the verifier accept a false statement, except with negligible probability.<sup>1</sup>

In succinct interactive arguments for NP, the prover gets a witness w as a private input, and the total number of bits it sends is significantly smaller than |w|, to the extreme of being polylogarithmic in |w|. Succinct interactive arguments are cornerstones of modern cryptography, enabling applications such as verifiable computation, cf., [\[GKR08\]](#page-32-0), where a computationally bounded client delegates work to a powerful server while maintaining assurance of the result's validity. While non-succinct (non-interactive) arguments trivially exist for any NP language—the prover simply sends the witness it receives as private input to the verifier—this does not seem to be the case for succinct arguments; known constructions of succinct interactive arguments for NP are based on collision-resistant hash functions [\[Kil92\]](#page-33-0), multi-collision resistant hash functions [\[KNY18\]](#page-33-1), indistinguishability obfuscation [\[SW14\]](#page-34-0), hardness of discrete logarithm [\[Boo+16\]](#page-31-0), and lattice-based assumptions [\[Bau+18\]](#page-31-1). This state of affairs raises the question of whether succinct interactive arguments for NP can be based on weaker assumptions, for example, the existence of one-way functions? And the following complementary question, which is in the focus of this paper,

Are one-way functions required for building succinct interactive arguments for NP?

An interactive argument is witness indistinguishable if, after the interaction, the verifier cannot tell which witness the prover used. It is witness hiding if, after the interaction, the verifier cannot compute any function of the witness used by the prover better than it could without the interaction. While all known constructions of witness indistinguishable and witness hiding arguments use oneway functions, cf., Goldreich et al. [\[GMW91\]](#page-32-1), unlike in the case of zero knowledge, it is not known that one-way functions are necessary. This raises the following question,

Are one-way functions necessary for constructing witness-indistinguishable and witnesshiding interactive arguments for NP?

### <span id="page-2-1"></span>1.1 Our Results

We study the existence of fully black-box reductions from one-way functions (OWFs) to interactive arguments. It is easy to see that, unless one proves that P ̸= NP, reductions from one-way functions to the existence of succinct interactive arguments do not exist; if P = NP, then one-way functions do not exist, but non-interactive arguments do exist (the verifier decides the language by itself). Hence, a reduction from one-way functions to the existence of interactive arguments (of any type) would establish that P ̸= NP. Therefore, the right type of reductions to consider is from one-way functions to interactive arguments together with an additional hardness assumption, e.g., NP ̸⊆ P/poly. Such reductions would enable, for instance, to prove that one-way functions are necessary for building succinct or witness-indistinguishable interactive arguments for hard-

<sup>1</sup> Interactive arguments are a relaxation of interactive proofs, where soundness is required to hold against arbitrary malicious provers.

{3}------------------------------------------------

to-decide languages. <sup>2</sup> To formalize such reductions, we naturally capture hardness assumptions using interactive games between a player and a (possibly inefficient) challenger, <sup>3</sup> and consider the following type of assumption-dependent reductions.

<span id="page-3-1"></span>Definition 1.1 (Assumption-dependent, fully black-box reductions from OWFs to interactive arguments, informal). An assumption-dependent, fully black-box reduction from OWFs to interactive arguments for an NP-relation R, with respect to a game G, is a poly-time, oracle-aided function f and a ppt, oracle-aided algorithm R, such that for every efficient interactive argument (P, V) and any efficient Inv that inverts f <sup>P</sup>,<sup>V</sup> with non-negligible probability, R (P,V),Inv breaks the soundness of (P, V), with respect to R, or wins the game G, with non-negligible probability.

That is, if f is not one-way then either the interactive argument (P, V) is not sound or the game G is not hard. We make the following remarks:

- The one-way function f treats the interactive argument parties as oracles, but might depend arbitrarily on the game G.
- The security proof R treats both the interactive argument and an adversary inverting f as oracles.
- We only require the reduction to work given access to an efficient interactive argument and an efficient inverter, where "efficient" stands for non-uniform poly-time algorithms.<sup>4</sup>

For such reductions, we prove the following result.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Theorem 1.2 (Informal). If there exists an assumption-dependent, fully black-box reduction from OWFs to interactive arguments for an NP-relation R, with respect to a game G, then there exists a black-box reduction from OWFs to G. Moreover, the above holds even if the reduction only needs to work when the interactive argument oracle is perfect zero knowledge.

Namely, if one can use the soundness of an interactive argument (succinct or not), together with the hardness of a game G to construct one-way functions, then one could also use only the hardness of G for this task. Moreover, since being perfect zero knowledge implies being perfect witness indistinguishable and witness hiding, the above holds also for reductions from one-way functions to witness-indistinguishable/hiding arguments. Note, however, that Theorem [1.2](#page-3-0) does not address reductions that get an oracle access to the zero-knowledge simulator.<sup>5</sup> Theorem [1.2](#page-3-0) naturally extends to auxiliary-input one-way functions.

<sup>2</sup>Similar types of reductions were used by Ostrovsky and Wigderson [\[OW93\]](#page-33-2) and Hirahara and Nanashima [\[HN24\]](#page-33-3) to prove that the existence of one-way functions is necessary for building zero-knowledge proofs for hard-to-decide languages. See more details in Section [1.3.](#page-7-1)

<sup>3</sup>Our actual definition, see Section [2.5,](#page-11-0) allows more complex games than such interactive protocols, and captures a larger set of hardness assumptions, such as NP ̸⊆ P/poly.

<sup>4</sup>Most separation results for fully black-box reductions exploit the fact that the reduction under consideration is required to work given access to any instantiation of the hardness assumption and the adversary. Requiring the reduction to succeed only given access to efficient entities simplifies the reduction's task, and thus makes lower bounds on such reductions, such as the ones we present here, more insightful.

<sup>5</sup>This is mandatory, since there are black-box reductions from zero-knowledge arguments and hardness of NP, to one-way functions. See Footnote [2](#page-2-1) and section [1.3.](#page-7-1)

{4}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-4-0"></span>1.2 Our Technique

Fix an assumption-dependent, fully black-box reduction (f, R) with respect to NP-relation R and a game G. Our approach is to give a construction of an efficient non-interactive argument Π,<sup>6</sup> and an efficient (no oracle) function g, such that inverting g implies the inversion of f <sup>Π</sup> := f <sup>P</sup>,V. Hence, for any inverter Inv of g, it holds that R <sup>Π</sup>,Inv either breaks the soundness of Π, or wins the game G. By carefully constructing the argument Π, we prove that the former does not hold, and conclude that R <sup>Π</sup>,Inv wins the game G. Finally, by letting R emulate Π internally (recall that Π is efficient), we get an efficient algorithm <sup>R</sup><sup>b</sup> such that <sup>R</sup>bInv wins the game <sup>G</sup>. Namely, we construct a (black-box) reduction from the one-wayness of g to the hardness of G. (We ignore the zero-knowledge part for now, and address it in Section [1.2.2.](#page-7-0))

Given the above blueprint, the main challenge is to construct the desired argument Π. We start with a simple approach, explain its shortcomings, and gradually develop the actual argument. Throughout, we assume without loss of generality that f only makes valid queries (ϕ, w) ∈ R to the prover (by design, our prover returns ⊥ on invalid queries). We also assume for simplicity that both f and R are length-preserving: on inputs of length n, the function f queries the interactive argument Π only on instances of length n, and the reduction R queries Π and the potential adversary Inv only on inputs of this length. In Section [1.2.1,](#page-6-0) we explain how to handle arbitrary reductions.

The unpredictable-function argument. When considering interactive arguments for an NPrelation R to be given as oracles to the reduction, the first thing that might come to mind is to use an unpredictable function. That is, consider the following argument Π<sup>h</sup> = (Ph, Vh).

```
Prover Ph. On input (ϕ, w): If (ϕ, w) ∈ R/ , return ⊥. Return h(ϕ).
Verifier Vh. On input (ϕ, π): Accept if and only if π = h(ϕ).
```

Here, h: {0, 1} <sup>n</sup> → {0, 1} ℓ(n) is sampled from a family of t(n)-wise independent hash functions, where t(n) ∈ poly(n) is larger than the query complexity of f and R, and ℓ(n) ∈ ω(log n). While the above argument uses shared randomness (i.e., h), it can later be replaced with fixed non-uniform advice. Clearly, the above argument is perfectly complete (for any fixing of h). The problem is that we do not know how to prove that an inverter Inv of f <sup>Π</sup><sup>h</sup> , cannot be used by the reduction R to break the soundness of Πh, <sup>7</sup> and our proof strategy does not go through.<sup>8</sup>

<sup>6</sup>Using non-interactive arguments in our proof stipulates that the black-box reduction cannot benefit from the low round complexity of the argument.

<sup>7</sup>While the query complexity of f and R is smaller than t, the information returned by Inv might be used by R to break the unpredictability of h, thus breaking the soundness of Πh.

<sup>8</sup> Interestingly, if we use a truly random function for h, i.e., a random oracle, then one can prove that R Πh,Inv cannot break the soundness of Πh. It is unclear, however, how to define the efficient one-way function g with respect to such an inefficient argument.

{5}------------------------------------------------

Separately answering f-generated queries. The crux of our approach is modifying the above argument so that it no longer uses h on "inputs generated by f". By doing so, we are guaranteed that an inverter of  $f^{\Pi_h}$  will not be useful in breaking the soundness of  $\Pi_h$ , overcoming the shortcoming of the first construction of  $\Pi_h$ . As a first simple case, assume that the function f makes only a single query  $(\phi, w)$  to the prover  $\mathsf{P}_h$  (and none to the verifier), and let  $\mathsf{qry}$  denote the function that maps  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$  to the first part of the query (i.e., the statement part). A key observation is that we can assume without loss of generality that  $\mathsf{qry}$  is not one-way; if it is one-way, let  $g := \mathsf{qry}$  and let  $\widehat{R}$  be the reduction that does nothing. Since g is one-way, there is no efficient lnv that inverts it. Thus,  $\widehat{R}$  is a valid reduction to the security of  $\mathsf{G}$ , and the pair  $(g, \widehat{R})$  concludes the proof. For the same reason, we can assume that  $\mathsf{qry}$  is not even weakly one-way. This leads to the following interactive argument. Let  $\mathsf{stInv}$  be a  $\mathsf{strong}$  inverter of  $\mathsf{qry}$ : it finds a preimage of  $\mathsf{qry}$  with all but negligible probability (since, by assumption,  $\mathsf{qry}$  is not weakly one-way, such an  $\mathsf{stInv}$  exists).

```
Prover P_h. On input (\phi, w): If (\phi, w) \notin \mathcal{R}, return \bot.

1. Let z \leftarrow \mathsf{stInv}(\phi).

2. If \mathsf{qry}(z) = \phi, return "check". Otherwise, return h(\phi).

Verifier V_h. On input (\phi, \pi): If \pi \neq "check", accept if and only if \pi = h(\phi).

Otherwise:

1. Let z \leftarrow \mathsf{stInv}(\phi).

2. Accept if and only if \mathsf{qry}(z) = \phi.
```

That is, the prover lets the verifier decide by itself on instances generated by f. The key observation is that when called by f, it will almost always be the case that the prover identifies the query as such, and will return "check". Hence, the function f (effectively) gets no access to h. Let g be the efficient function that on input x, emulates f(x) while answering all  $P_h$  queries with "check", and let Inv be an inverter of g. Namely, g captures the behavior of f, but under simulated oracle answers that avoid access to h. Since the output distributions of g and  $f^{\Pi_h}$  are statistically close, Inv also inverts  $f^{\Pi_h}$ . The point is that being (effectively) independent of h, algorithm  $R^{\text{Inv},\Pi_h}$  cannot break the soundness of  $\Pi_h$ , and thus it must win G. Hence, the function g and the reduction  $\hat{R}$ , which acts like R while emulating the calls to  $\Pi_h$  internally, establish the proof.

Multiple prover-queries. The above naturally extends to the case where f makes multiple queries to P (but no queries to V). Define the function qry(x,i) to output the  $i^{th}$  query made by  $f^{\mathsf{P}_h}(x)$ , while answering its previous  $\mathsf{P}_h$ -queries with "check". Define the function g analogously to qry while outputting f's (final) output (and not its  $i^{th}$  query). Finally, let stInv be a strong inverter of qry. By construction, the output distributions of g and  $f^{\Pi_h}$  are close, and a similar proof to the one in the single-query case goes through.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>9</sup>Weak one-way functions can be amplified, in a fully black-box manner, to full-fledged one-way functions, and the same argument as above would apply.

{6}------------------------------------------------

Verifier queries. We finally explain how to handle queries made by f to the verifier Vh. For the above construction, allowing verifier queries would give the function f access to an inverter of its query function qry. This would yield a recursive definition of qry, rendering the argument inefficient for a function f of super-constant query complexity. We handle this problem by using a second hash function h <sup>C</sup> for the "easy" (i.e., f-generated) queries, preventing f from making verifier queries for which it does not already know the answer.

We define the argument Π using a query function qry that on input (x, i) outputs the statement part of the i th query made by f(x), while answering f's oracle queries as follows:

```
P-query (ϕ, ·). Answer h
                         C(ϕ).
```

V-query (ϕ, π). Answer 1 if and only if π = h <sup>C</sup>(ϕ).

Let stInv be an efficient, strong inverter of qry. (Note that qry is clearly efficient.)

```
Prover PhC,hT . On input (ϕ, w): If (ϕ, w) ∈ R/ , return ⊥.
        1. Let z ← stInv(ϕ).
        2. If qry(z) = ϕ, return h
                                  C(ϕ). Otherwise, return h
                                                             T(ϕ).
Verifier VhC,hT . On input (ϕ, π):
        1. If π = h
                   T(ϕ), accept. Otherwise,
        2. Let z ← stInv(ϕ).
        3. Accept if and only if π = h
                                       C(ϕ) and qry(z) = ϕ.
```

That is, on f-generated queries, the prover returns h <sup>C</sup>(ϕ), and the verifier checks that π = h <sup>C</sup>(ϕ). Define the function g analogously to qry while outputting f's (final) output. By construction, the output distributions of g and f <sup>Π</sup>hC,h<sup>T</sup> are close, and a similar proof to the one in the prover-only queries case goes through.

#### <span id="page-6-0"></span>1.2.1 Handling Arbitrary Reductions

When considering arbitrary reductions, the function f can query Π (i.e., the prover and verifier) on queries of arbitrary length. Hence, we no longer can instruct the query function qry to return h <sup>C</sup>(ϕ) on all prover-queries of the form (ϕ, ·); if the query (ϕ, w) has length n ′ ← log n (where n is the input length of f), then in terms of n ′ , the function f has invested exponential time in generating it, and the prover will use the function h <sup>T</sup> on such queries. So to closely mimic the real query function of f, the query function qry has to also use h <sup>T</sup>, and our proof strategy breaks down.

The solution is to change Π to use a different pair of hash functions (h <sup>C</sup>, hT) according to the length of ϕ. In addition, we instruct P and V to try, on input (ϕ, ·), to invert the query function, which now is using h <sup>T</sup>, on all inputs of length n <sup>1</sup>/c, . . . , n<sup>c</sup> , for an appropriate choice of c ∈ N, and for n ← |ϕ|. Proving the above turned out to be rather subtle, and constitutes the most technically challenging part of the paper.

{7}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-7-0"></span>1.2.2 Zero Knowledge

Note that the interactive arguments we considered above are perfect zero-knowledge. Indeed, on input ϕ, the simulator simply acts as the prover P would on input (ϕ, w), after verifying that (ϕ, w) ∈ R. Consequently, our implication—that any fully black-box reduction from one-way functions to interactive arguments (possibly combined with G) yields a reduction from one-way functions to G alone—continues to hold even if the reduction (f, R) is only required to work when the interactive arguments are perfect zero-knowledge.

As a sanity check, observe that if R was given access to the simulator of Π, it could use this access to break the soundness of Π. However, our definition of fully black-box reductions does not permit such access.

# <span id="page-7-1"></span>1.3 Related Work

We briefly survey work related to our result.

Black-box limitations. The use of black-box limitations in cryptography was initiated in the seminal work of [\[IR89\]](#page-33-4), showing a black-box separation between key-agreement protocols and oneway functions.<sup>10</sup> Subsequent work established black-box limitations on constructions of other primitives, such as collision-resistant hash functions [\[Sim98\]](#page-34-1) and oblivious transfer [\[Ger+00\]](#page-32-2). Our proof technique resembles the so-called meta-reductions, cf., [\[BMV08;](#page-31-2) [HRS09\]](#page-33-5), where one shows that the oracle gates used by the black-box proof of security (i.e., R in our case) can be emulated efficiently.

Constructing one-way functions. One-way functions are known to be implied by the existence of many other primitives and hardness assumptions, e.g., pseudorandom generators, cf., [\[IL89\]](#page-33-6). Among them, the most relevant results are the construction of one-way functions from the existence of zero-knowledge (ZK) proofs/arguments for (all) NP together with the assumption that NP is hard. [\[OW93\]](#page-33-2) pioneered this direction by constructing auxiliary-input one-way functions assuming ZK-proofs (or arguments) for NP and NP ̸⊆ BPP. More recently, [\[HN24\]](#page-33-3) (see also [\[LMP24\]](#page-33-7)), improved this result by showing the existence of (standard) one-way functions, assuming ZKarguments for NP and NP ̸⊆ i.o.P/poly.<sup>11</sup> The above constructions are assumption-dependent fully black-box reductions from one-way functions to ZK proofs/arguments, the zero-knowledge simulator, and the relevant hardness assumption (under the natural adaptation of Definition [1.1](#page-3-1) to zeroknowledge protocols).

Succinct arguments. The feasibility of succinct interactive arguments was established by [\[Kil92\]](#page-33-0), who constructed such arguments for all NP assuming the existence of collision-resistant hash functions. More recently, [\[KNY18\]](#page-33-1) showed a construction from multi-collision resistant hash functions. Succinct (zero-knowledge) arguments were also constructed using stronger assumptions, such as discrete logarithm [\[Boo+16\]](#page-31-0) and lattice-based assumptions [\[Bau+18\]](#page-31-1) (see also [\[Boo+20;](#page-31-3) [ACK21;](#page-31-4)

<sup>10</sup>A black-box a separation presents a "world" in which the assumption, e.g., OWFs, exist but the desired primitive, e.g., key agreement, does not. Black-box separations are more informative than fully black-box reductions; they can be used, for instance, to refute the existence of a two-part black-box construction in which the second part uses an adversary of the first part, if such exists (see [\[RV24\]](#page-33-8) for an example of such a construction), where fully black-box reduction cannot.

<sup>11</sup>The class i.o.P/poly contains all languages that can be solved by poly-size circuits, for infinitely many n's.

{8}------------------------------------------------

[BCS21;](#page-31-5) [BS23;](#page-32-3) [BCS23\]](#page-31-6)). For succinct non-interactive arguments (SNARGs), [\[GW11\]](#page-33-9) proved that (certain types of) SNARGs cannot be black-box reduced to a falsifiable assumption (as defined by [\[Nao03\]](#page-33-10)). Following this barrier, SNARGs were constructed using non-falsifiable assumptions, such as indistinguishability obfuscation (io) [\[SW14\]](#page-34-0) and the generic group model [\[Gro16\]](#page-32-4) (see also [\[Mic00;](#page-33-11) [BS+18;](#page-32-5) [Set20;](#page-33-12) [BFS20\]](#page-31-7)). The barrier was also bypassed by considering more restricted languages, specifically by constructing SNARGs for P from falsifiable assumptions such as bilinear groups [\[KPY19\]](#page-33-13) and learning with errors (LWE) [\[CJJ21\]](#page-32-6). On a different vein, [\[HNY22\]](#page-33-14) proved that, assuming the randomized exponential time hypothesis (rETH) holds, certain types of SNARGs constructions in the random-oracle model (ROM) cannot be "very concise".

Succinct proofs. Succinctness was also studied in the context of interactive proofs (i.e., soundness should hold against unbounded provers). [\[GVW01\]](#page-33-15) analyzed the complexity of interactive proofs with succinct (referred there as laconic) provers. They showed that any language admitting an interactive proof where the prover sends at most c(n) bits is decidable in probabilistic time O(2c(n) ). Thus, (sufficiently) succinct interactive proofs are unlikely to exist for all NP.

Witness indistinguishability and witness hiding. [\[GMW86\]](#page-32-7) were the first to construct zeroknowledge (ZK) arguments (which are also witness indistinguishable and witness hiding) for NP, assuming the existence of one-way functions. [\[FLS99\]](#page-32-8) showed how to construct non-interactive ZK arguments using trapdoor permutations. [\[DN00\]](#page-32-9) relaxed the required assumption for non-interactive witness indistinguishable arguments (NIWIs) to verifiable PRGs. Later, [\[GOS06\]](#page-32-10) constructed NI-WIs from bi-linear groups, and [\[BP15\]](#page-32-11) have done it assuming indistinguishability obfuscation.

### Paper Organization

Section [2](#page-8-0) contains definitions and background material used in the paper. The formal statement of our result and its proof, are given in Section [3.](#page-12-0)

# <span id="page-8-0"></span>2 Preliminaries

# <span id="page-8-1"></span>2.1 Notation

We use calligraphic letters to denote sets, uppercase for random variables, lowercase for integers and functions, and boldface for vectors. All logarithms are base 2. For n ∈ N, let [n] := {1, . . . , n}. For a vector x := (x1, . . . , xn) and j ≤ n, let (x)<sup>j</sup> := x<sup>j</sup> and let (x)≤<sup>j</sup> := (x1, . . . , x<sup>j</sup> ). We naturally extend this notation to strings as well. For a distribution X , let x <sup>R</sup>← X denote the process of sampling x according to X . Similarly, for a set S, s <sup>R</sup>← S stands for the process of sampling s uniformly from S. For two distributions X and Y, let SD(X ,Y) denote their statistical distance (also known as, variation distance). Let poly stand for the set of all (integer) polynomials. We sometimes abuse notation and treat poly as an arbitrary polynomial. A function f(n) is negligible if for every p ∈ poly there exists n<sup>0</sup> ∈ N such that f(n) < 1/p(n) for all n > n0. We write f(n) ≤ neg(n) to denote that f(n) is negligible. For an NP-relation R, let L<sup>R</sup> be the language {x: ∃w s.t (x, w) ∈ R}. We use ppt to denote probabilistic polynomial time and pptm to denote ppt machines, i.e., algorithms. A circuit family <sup>C</sup> <sup>=</sup> {Cn}n∈<sup>N</sup> is of size p if |Cn| ≤ p(n) for every n ∈ N.

{9}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-9-0"></span>2.2 Many-wise Independent Hashing

**Definition 2.1** (Many-wise Independent Hash). A function-family  $\mathcal{H} = \{h : \mathcal{X} \to \mathcal{Y}\}$  is t-wise independent, if for any distinct inputs  $x_1, \ldots, x_t \in \mathcal{X}$  and any values  $y_1, \ldots, y_t \in \mathcal{Y}$ :

$$\Pr_{h \overset{R}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}} [h(x_1) = y_1 \wedge \dots \wedge h(x_t) = y_t] = 1/|\mathcal{Y}|^t.$$

**Definition 2.2** (Efficient function ensemble). A function-family ensemble  $\mathcal{H} = \{\mathcal{H}_n = \{h \colon \mathcal{X}_n \to \mathcal{Y}_n\}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  is efficient, if sampling  $h \stackrel{\mathbb{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_n$  and computing h(x) for  $h \in \mathcal{H}_n$  and  $x \in \mathcal{X}_n$ , can be done in time poly(log| $\mathcal{X}_n$ |).

Fact 2.3 ([CW81]). For every  $t, \ell \in \text{poly}$ , there exists an efficient, t-wise independent, function-family ensemble  $\{\mathcal{H}_n = \{h \colon \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^{\ell(n)}\}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ .

### <span id="page-9-1"></span>2.3 One-way Functions

Since we deal with "lower bounds", we focus on infinitely often, i.o, one-way functions. 12

**Definition 2.4** (Infinitely often one-way functions (OWF)). A poly-time function  $f: \{0,1\}^* \to \{0,1\}^*$  is i.o one-way if for any PPTM A:

<span id="page-9-2"></span>
$$\Pr_{\substack{x \stackrel{R}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n \\ y \leftarrow f(x)}} \left[ \mathsf{A}(1^n, y) \in f^{-1}(y) \right] \le \operatorname{neg}(n) \tag{1}$$

for infinitely many  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ . The function f is i.o weakly one-way if for any PPTM A:

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \overset{R}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n \\ y \leftarrow f(x)}} \left[ \mathsf{A}(1^n, y) \in f^{-1}(y) \right] \le 1 - 1/\mathrm{poly}(n) \tag{2}$$

for infinitely many  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ . The function f is non-uniform i.o one-way if Equation (1) holds with respect to non-uniform poly-time algorithms (i.e., poly-size circuit family). Non-uniform i.o weak one-way functions are analogously defined.

We omit  $1^n$  from A's input list when clear from the context. When clear from the context, we denote a (length-regular) function  $f: \{0,1\}^* \to \{0,1\}^*$  that maps n-bit strings to p(n)-bit strings, by  $f: \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^{p(n)}$ .

**Definition 2.5** (Strong inversion). A function  $f: \{0,1\}^* \to \{0,1\}^*$  is strongly invertible if for every  $t \in \text{poly } there \ exists \ a \ \text{PPTM A} \ such \ that:$ 

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \overset{R}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n \\ y \leftarrow f(x)}} \left[ \mathsf{A}(1^n, y) \in f^{-1}(y) \right] \ge 1 - 1/t(n).$$

for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ .

Note that if i.o weak one-way functions do not exist, every poly-time function is strongly invertible.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>12</sup>Since a OWF is also an i.o OWF, showing limitations on (assumption dependent) black-box reductions from i.o OWFs to interactive arguments, is a more insightful result.

{10}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-10-0"></span>2.3.1 Weak to Strong One-way Functions

We use the following variant of [\[Yao82\]](#page-34-2)'s one-way functions amplification, implicit in [\[Gol01\]](#page-32-13).

<span id="page-10-3"></span>Lemma 2.6 (Weak to strong one-way functions). For every poly-time fw, α ∈ (0, 1) and ε ≥ 1/poly, there exist poly-time f and oracle-aided algorithm R such that the following holds: for any algorithm A such that

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \overset{R}\leftarrow \{0,1\}^n\\ y \leftarrow f(x)}} \left[ \mathsf{A}(1^n,y) \in f^{-1}(y) \right] > \varepsilon(n)$$

for every n ∈ N, it holds that

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \stackrel{R}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n \\ y = f_{\mathsf{w}}(x)}} \left[ \mathsf{R}^{\mathsf{A}}(1^n, y) \in f_{\mathsf{w}}^{-1}(y) \right] > \alpha$$

for every n ∈ N.

Lemma [2.6](#page-10-3) holds, under the natural extension, for non-uniform and auxiliary-input one-way functions.

# <span id="page-10-1"></span>2.4 Interactive Arguments

We use the standard definition of interactive arguments for NP relations.

Definition 2.7 (Interactive argument). An interactive argument for an NP-relation R is a pair of ppt algorithms (P, V) such that the following holds:

Completeness. For all (ϕ, w) ∈ R: Pr[(P(ϕ, w), V)(ϕ) = 1] = 1. 13

Soundness. For any PPT 
$$\widehat{P}$$
 and  $\phi \notin \mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}$ :  $\Pr[(\widehat{P}, \mathsf{V})(\phi) = 1] \leq \operatorname{neg}(|\phi|)$ .

The prover is ℓ-bit, if for any (ϕ, w) ∈ R, P(ϕ, w) sends at most ℓ(|ϕ|) bits. The interactive argument is laconic, if the prover is ℓ(n) ∈ O(log(n))-bit. The interactive argument is non uniform, if P and V are non-uniform: receive non-uniform advice z<sup>n</sup> for common input of length n.

#### <span id="page-10-2"></span>2.4.1 Zero Knowledge and Witness Hiding

We consider the following strong variants of perfect zero knowledge, witness indistinguishability, and witness hiding interactive arguments. In particular, all definitions below apply to unbounded cheating verifiers.<sup>14</sup> Let ViewV∗,P(w) (ϕ) denote V ∗ 's view in a random execution of (P(w), V ∗ )(ϕ).

Definition 2.8 (Perfect zero knowledge). An interactive argument (P, V) for an NP-relation R is perfect zero knowledge, if for any probabilistic t-time verifier V ∗ there exists a probabilistic poly(t) time simulator S such that for any (ϕ, w) ∈ R, the distributions S(ϕ) and ViewV∗,P(w) (ϕ) are identical.

<sup>13</sup>While standard definitions usually allow completeness 1−neg(|ϕ|), requiring perfect completeness only strengthens our results.

<sup>14</sup>Since we care about separation results, considering the strongest variants of these definitions is more informative.

{11}------------------------------------------------

Definition 2.9 (Perfect witness indistinguishability). An interactive argument (P, V) for an NPrelation R is perfect witness indistinguishable, if for any probabilistic verifier V <sup>∗</sup> and (ϕ, w1, w2) with (ϕ, w1),(ϕ, w2) ∈ R, the distributions ViewV∗,P(w1) (ϕ) and ViewV∗,P(w2) (ϕ) are identical.

Definition 2.10 (Perfect witness hiding). An interactive argument (P, V) for an NP-relation R is perfect witness hiding, if for any probabilistic verifier V ∗ , function h, instance ϕ ∈ L(R) and distribution W over {w : (ϕ, w) ∈ R}, it holds that Pr w <sup>R</sup>←W [(P(w),V ∗ )(ϕ) = h(w)] ≤ 2 − H∞(h(W)) .

The proofs of the following facts are immediate.

Fact 2.11. A perfect zero-knowledge interactive argument for an NP-relation R is perfect witness hiding for R.

Fact 2.12. A perfect witness-hiding interactive argument for an NP-relation R is perfect witness indistinguishable for R.

### <span id="page-11-0"></span>2.5 Games

We capture hardness assumptions using the following notion of games.

Definition 2.13 (Games). A game G is a pair of a (possibly inefficient) challenger C and a family of sets I = {I<sup>k</sup> = {i k <sup>n</sup> ∈ {0, 1} n }n∈N}k∈N. Player P wins the game G with probability ε, if for all k ∈ N, it holds that

$$\Pr\Big[(\mathsf{P},\mathsf{C})(1^n,i_n^k)=1\Big] \geq \varepsilon(n)$$

for infinitely many n.

Namely, the player is required to succeed with probability at least ε, for infinitely many n, given any set I k in the family. The above definition of games encompasses standard falsifiable assumptions, such as the hardness of inverting one-way functions, but also models more complex assumptions, such as the soundness of an interactive argument, and even assumptions like NP ̸⊆ P/poly, see below.

### <span id="page-11-1"></span>2.5.1 Three Games of Interest

We exemplify the above notion of games using three games of interest.

Inverting one-way functions. The following game captures the hardness of inverting a function.

Definition 2.14 (The game G OWF f ). For a function f : {0, 1} <sup>∗</sup> → {0, 1} ∗ , the game G OWF f is the pair (C, ∅), where on input 1 n the challenger C samples x <sup>R</sup>← {0, 1} n , sends y ← f(x) to the player, and outputs 1 if the player answers back with x ′ ∈ f −1 (y).

It is easy to verify that f is one-way if and only if no pptm wins the game G OWF <sup>f</sup> with nonnegligible probability.

{12}------------------------------------------------

Soundness of an interactive argument. The following game captures the soundness of an interactive argument  $(\cdot, V)$  with respect to a language  $\mathcal{L}$ .

**Definition 2.15** (The game  $G_{V,\mathcal{L}}$ ). For a PPTM V and language  $\mathcal{L} \subseteq \{0,1\}^*$ , the game  $G_{V,\mathcal{L}}$  is the pair  $(\mathsf{C},\emptyset)$ , where the player first sends  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$ , and  $\mathsf{C}(1^n)$  then run  $\mathsf{V}(x)$ . The challenger  $\mathsf{C}$  outputs 1 if  $\mathsf{V}$  accepts the interaction and  $x \in \{0,1\}^n \setminus \mathcal{L}$ .

It is easy to verify that the argument  $(\cdot,V)$  is sound for the language  $\mathcal{L},$  if and only if no PPTM wins the game  $G_{V,\mathcal{L}}$  with non-negligible probability.

**Deciding** NP. The following game captures the hardness of NP.

<span id="page-12-2"></span>**Definition 2.16** (The game  $G^{NP}$ ). The game  $G^{NP}$  is the pair  $(C, \mathcal{I})$ , where  $i_n^k$  is the n-bit binary representation of  $\min\{k, 2^n - 1\}$ . On input  $(1^n, x)$ , the player sends  $b \in \{0, 1\}$ , and the challenger C accepts if and only if  $b = 1_{SAT}(x)$ .

It is easy to verify that the assumption  $P \neq NP$  is equivalent to the assumption that no poly-time player wins the game  $G^{NP}$  with probability one. The assumption  $NP \not\subseteq P/poly$  [resp.,  $NP \not\subseteq BPP$ ] is equivalent to the assumption that no poly-size [resp., PPT] player wins the game  $G^{NP}$  with non-negligible probability.

# <span id="page-12-0"></span>3 Emulating Assumption-Dependent Reductions to Interactive Arguments

In this section, we define assumption-dependent, fully black-box reductions from one-way functions to interactive arguments and present our main result, showing that the existence of such a reduction implies a reduction from non-uniform one-way functions to the underlying game alone.

In Section 3.1, we formally define assumption-dependent fully black-box reductions from OWFs to succinct interactive arguments. In Section 3.2, we state our main result regarding such reductions. As a warm-up, we prove in Section 3.3 a simplified variant of Theorem 3.2. A full proof of Theorem 3.2 is given in Section 3.4. Finally, in Section 3.5, we explain how to extend our result to reductions from auxiliary-input one-way functions.

### <span id="page-12-1"></span>3.1 Assumption-Dependent Reductions

In this section, we formally define assumption-dependent, fully black-box reductions from one-way functions to interactive arguments.

<span id="page-12-3"></span>**Definition 3.1** (Assumption-dependent fully black-box reductions from OWFs to interactive arguments). An assumption-dependent fully black-box reduction from OWFs to non-uniform,  $\ell$ -bit interactive arguments for an NP-relation  $\mathcal R$  with respect to a game G, is an oracle-aided, poly-time, non-uniform pair of a function f and a probabilistic algorithm R, such that the following holds for any non-uniform  $\ell$ -bit interactive argument (P,V) for  $\mathcal R$ :

- 1.  $f^{(P,V)}$  maps n-bit strings to n-bit strings.
- 2. There exists  $p \in \text{poly such that for any } t \in \text{poly and any non-uniform poly-time Inv that inverts } f^{(\mathsf{P},\mathsf{V})}$  with probability 1/t(n) for all n, it holds that  $\mathsf{R}^{(\mathsf{P},\mathsf{V}),\mathsf{Inv}}(1^{t(n)},1^n)$  wins either the game  $\mathsf{G}_{\mathsf{V},\mathcal{L}_\mathcal{R}}$  or the game  $\mathsf{G}$ , with probability 1/p(t(n)).

{13}------------------------------------------------

We make the following remarks:

- $\bullet$  Requiring f to be length preserving, which simplifies the notations in our proofs, is not a restriction since an arbitrary one-way function implies a length-preserving one via standard (black-box) techniques.
- $\bullet$  The reduction R is black-box in the interactive argument (P,V), but not in the game G.
- R only has to succeed given access to an inverter, Inv, that inverts f with non-negligible probability for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ . Namely, the definition captures reductions from i.o one-way functions.
- R receives  $1^{t(n)}$  as an additional input, where 1/t(n) is the success probability of Inv. Thus, the definition captures reductions that depend on this parameter.<sup>15</sup>
- R has to win one of the games, with probability 1/p(t(n)). Namely, there should be an *a priori* polynomial relation between the inversion probability of Inv and the winning probability of R. Such a guarantee, however, holds (or can be made to hold) in all reductions we could think of (recall that R gets  $1^{t(n)}$  as an additional input).

### <span id="page-13-0"></span>3.2 Emulating Assumption-Dependent Reductions

In this section, we prove the main result of the paper: an emulation of assumption-dependent, fully black-box reductions from OWFs to interactive arguments.

<span id="page-13-1"></span>**Theorem 3.2** (Emulating black-box reductions from OWFs to interactive arguments). Let (f, R) be an assumption-dependent, fully black-box reduction from OWFs to non-laconic, <sup>16</sup> non-uniform,  $\ell$ -bit interactive arguments for an NP-relation  $\mathcal{R}$ , with respect to a game G. Then there exists a non-uniform, poly-time pair of function g and an oracle-aided randomized algorithm  $\widehat{R}$ , and a constant c>0, such that for any non-uniform poly-time Inv that inverts g with probability  $1/\operatorname{poly}(n)$  for all  $n\in\mathbb{N}$ , it holds that  $\widehat{R}^{\operatorname{Inv}}$  wins the game G with probability at least c.

Moreover, the above holds even if the reduction only needs to work when the interactive argument oracle is perfect zero knowledge.

That is, the interactive argument is redundant for the construction of (i.o) one-way functions: if there exists a reduction from one-way functions to both interactive arguments and a game  ${\sf G}$ , then there exists a reduction from i.o one-way functions to  ${\sf G}$  alone.

**Remark 3.3** (Reductions to  $P \neq NP$ ). When applied to (reductions to) the game  $G^{NP}$ , see Definition 2.16, Theorem 3.2 yields a reduction from OWFs to the assumption that  $NP \not\subseteq P/poly$ . Indeed, the coins of (and the amplified variant of) algorithm  $\widehat{R}$  guaranteed by Theorem 3.2, can be fixed so that it wins  $G^{NP}$  on all inputs with probability one.

Remark 3.4 (Reductions to zero-knowledge arguments). We emphasize that Theorem 3.2 does not address fully black-box reductions from one-way functions to zero-knowledge arguments. In particular, the reduction  $\hat{R}$  from Definition 3.1 does not receive oracle access to the zero-knowledge simulator. Rather, the theorem applies to reductions that are only required to work when the argument  $\Pi$  is (perfect) zero knowledge. In particular, this includes reductions that might attempt to exploit the fact that  $\Pi$  is witness indistinguishable or witness hiding.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>15</sup>e.g., the hardcore predicate construction of [GL89].

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>16</sup>Reductions to laconic interactive arguments are not only uninteresting (laconic arguments have only limited soundness), but they also exist: the reduction breaks the soundness of the argument by sending a uniform string.

{14}------------------------------------------------

Remark 3.5 (Reductions to non-interactive arguments). Theorem [3.2](#page-13-1) holds even if we allow the reduction to succeed only when given access to non-interactive arguments. This holds since in the proof, we only use such arguments.

Remark 3.6 (Infinitely-often inverters). If we modify Definition [3.1](#page-12-3) to work against algorithms that invert the function f (only) infinitely often, then Theorem [3.2](#page-13-1) changes accordingly: holds even if we allow the inverter of g to succeed infinitely often.

### <span id="page-14-0"></span>3.3 Proof for Length-Preserving Reductions

In this section, we prove Theorem [3.2](#page-13-1) for length-preserving reductions: reductions such that on input of length n, both f and R query the interactive argument algorithms on statements of length n, and R queries the inverter of f on inputs of length n. Let (f, R) be a length-preserving, assumptiondependent, fully black-box reduction from OWFs to non-uniform ℓ-bit interactive arguments for the NP-relation R, with respect to a game G, where ℓ(n) ∈ ω(log n) (recall the reduction is to nonlaconic arguments). In the following, we fix the first input of R, 1t(n) , to 1<sup>8</sup> (i.e., R fixed to work against inverters with success probability at least 1/8), and omit it from the notation. Throughout, we assume that f only makes well-formed, valid prover-queries, i.e., (ϕ, w) ∈ R (by design, our prover returns ⊥ on invalid queries). Let p<sup>f</sup> (n) ∈ poly(n) be an upper bound on the total running time of f and R, on inputs of length n.

# <span id="page-14-1"></span>3.3.1 The Interactive Argument

We start by defining a non-interactive argument Π to which the reduction will get oracle access. Towards this goal, we consider the following non-uniform, non-interactive argument, defined using an efficient p<sup>f</sup> (n)-wise independent, function-family ensemble H = {H<sup>n</sup> = {h: {0, 1} <sup>n</sup> → {0, 1} ℓ(n) }}n∈N.

```
Algorithm 3.7. [Hash-based argument Π = ( b Pb, Vb)]
```

Parameter: h ∈ Hn.

Pb <sup>h</sup>(ϕ, w): If (ϕ, w) ∈ R, return h(ϕ); otherwise return ⊥.

Vb <sup>h</sup>(ϕ, π): If π = h(ϕ), return 1; otherwise return 0.

That is, the prover simply applies the hash on the statement (if an appropriate witness is provided), and the verifier checks if the proof matches the hash of the statement. Algorithm [3.7](#page-14-2) is not the argument on which we invoke R, but will be used as an intermediate tool for characterizing the actual argument. In particular, we use the following "query function" qry that outputs the prover queries made by f Πb .

Function 3.8. [The query function qry] On input (h, x, i) ∈ Hn×{0, 1} <sup>n</sup>×[p<sup>f</sup> (n)], the function qry executes f <sup>Π</sup>b<sup>h</sup> (x) up to the i th prover-query (ϕ<sup>i</sup> , wi), and outputs ϕ<sup>i</sup> . If f <sup>Π</sup>b<sup>h</sup> (x) does not make i prover queries, it outputs ⊥.

{15}------------------------------------------------

A key observation is that without loss of generality qry (defined for any value of n) is strongly invertible. Otherwise, there exists a black-box reduction from the inversion of qry to G, and we are done.<sup>17</sup> Consequently, there exists a poly-time, non-uniform algorithm stlnv that inverts qry with probability  $1 - \varepsilon(n)$  (over the uniform input distribution), for  $\varepsilon(n) := 1/4p_f(n)$ . We use stlnv to construct the non-interactive argument  $\Pi = (P, V)$ . The non-uniform prover and verifier are parameterized by two hash functions:  $h^C$ , for "easy" instances, where the verifier checks for a witness, and  $h^T$ , for "hard" instances, where the verifier must trust the proof.

```
Algorithm 3.9. [Prover P_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}]

Parameters: h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}} \in \mathcal{H}_n.

Input: (\phi, w) \in \{0, 1\}^n \times \{0, 1\}^*

Operation:

1. If (\phi, w) \notin \mathcal{R}, return \perp.

2. Let z \leftarrow \mathsf{stInv}(\phi).

3. Return h^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi) if \mathsf{qry}(z) = \phi, and h^{\mathsf{T}}(\phi) otherwise.
```

That is, the prover applies  $h^{\mathsf{C}}$  on the statement if stlnv succeeds in inverting it, and applies  $h^{\mathsf{T}}$  otherwise.

```
Algorithm 3.10. [Verifier V_{h^{C},h^{T}}]

Parameters: h^{C}, h^{T} \in \mathcal{H}_{n}.

Input: (\phi, \pi) \in \{0, 1\}^{n} \times \{0, 1\}^{*}

Operation:

1. If \pi = h^{T}(\phi): return 1.

2. If \pi = h^{C}(\phi):

(a) Let z \leftarrow \text{stInv}(\phi).

(b) If qry(z) = \phi, return 1.

3. Return 0.
```

That is, if the proof  $\pi$  matches  $h^{\mathsf{T}}(\phi)$ , then the verifier accepts. If the proof matches  $h^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ , the verifier runs stlnv, and if succeeds, which implies that  $\phi \in \mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}$ , it accepts. For the non-uniform, non-interactive argument that is defined over *all* input lengths, we take  $\Pi = \{(\mathsf{P}_{h_n^\mathsf{C},h_n^\mathsf{T}},\mathsf{V}_{h_n^\mathsf{C},h_n^\mathsf{T}})\}_{(h_n^\mathsf{C},h_n^\mathsf{T})\in\mathcal{H}_n}$  (the choice of hash functions will be discussed later). For most parts, however, it will be sufficient to consider a single input length. Since stlnv is deterministic, its executions by the prover and

<sup>17</sup>If a function qry is not strongly invertible, by Lemma 2.6 it can be amplified to a one-way function g from which a security reduction can be defined to any game G; any efficient inverter of g breaks the hardness of G (since such inverter does not exist).

{16}------------------------------------------------

the verifier are identical. Hence,  $\Pi$  has *perfect* completeness. Also note that  $\Pi$  is a perfect zero-knowledge argument: on input  $\phi$ , the simulator acts according to  $\mathsf{P}(\phi,\cdot)$  without the first step (i.e., not testing for  $(\phi,w)\in\mathcal{R}$ ).

Towards presenting the (candidate one-way) function g and the reduction  $\widehat{R}$ , we prove that the executions of  $f^{\widehat{\Pi}}$  and  $f^{\Pi}$  are close.

<span id="page-16-1"></span>Claim 3.11. 
$$\Pr_{(h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}},x)\overset{R}{\leftarrow}\mathcal{H}_n^2\times\{0,1\}^n}\left[f^{\widehat{\Pi}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}}}(x)\neq f^{\Pi_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}}(x)\right]\leq 1/2 \text{ for all } n \text{ with } \ell(n)\geq 2+\log 1/\varepsilon(n).$$

*Proof.* We prove the stronger statement that the execution traces—the input x and the inputs/outputs of the oracle calls—of  $f^{\Pi_h c_{,h} r}(x)$  and  $f^{\widehat{\Pi}_h c}(x)$  are 1/2 close, for uniform  $(x, h^c, h^r)$ . The proof is by coupling the two distributions.

# **Algorithm 3.12.** [Coupling $f^{\Pi}$ and $f^{\widehat{\Pi}}$ ]

- 1. Sample  $(h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{\mathbb{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_n^2$  and  $x \stackrel{\mathbb{R}}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^n$ .
- 2. Let  $\mathsf{trace}^{\widehat{\Pi}}$  and  $\mathsf{trace}^{\Pi}$  denote the traces of the executions of  $f^{\widehat{\Pi}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}}}(x)$  and  $f^{\Pi_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}}(x)$ , respectively.
- 3. Output  $(trace^{\widehat{\Pi}}, trace^{\Pi})$ .

We prove the claim by showing that

<span id="page-16-0"></span>
$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{trace}^{\widehat{\Pi}} \neq \mathsf{trace}^{\Pi}\right] \le 1/2 \tag{3}$$

Let  $E_i$  be the event that  $\operatorname{trace}^{\widehat{\Pi}}$  and  $\operatorname{trace}^{\Pi}$  are identical up to the  $i^{\operatorname{th}}$  query. We show that  $\Pr[\neg E_i \mid E_{i-1}] \leq 2\varepsilon(n)$ , for every  $i \in [p_f(n)]$ , and since  $E_0$  trivially holds, the proof of Equation (3) follows by a union bound. Assuming  $E_{i-1}$  holds, the  $i^{\operatorname{th}}$  query generated by f is the same in both executions. We bound the probability that the oracle responses on it differ (i.e., that  $\neg E_i$  occurs), while separately handling prover and verifier queries. Since the reduction is length preserving, all queries are of the form  $(\phi, \cdot) \in \{0, 1\}^n \times \{0, 1\}^*$ .

**Prover query.** Let  $(\phi, w)$  be a query to the prover. By our assumption on f, we have  $(\phi, w) \in \mathcal{R}$ . By definition,  $\widehat{\mathsf{P}}_{h^\mathsf{C}}$  answers  $h^\mathsf{C}(\phi)$ . The response of  $\mathsf{P}_{h^\mathsf{C},h^\mathsf{T}}$  depends on the output of  $\mathsf{stInv}(\phi)$ . Since  $\phi$  is distributed as a uniform query of  $f^{\widehat{\Pi}}$  conditioned on  $E_{i-1}$ , which by the induction assumption occurs with probability at least 1/2, it holds that  $\mathsf{stInv}$  outputs a preimage z with probability at least  $1-2\varepsilon(n)$  (over the choice of  $h^\mathsf{C},x$ ). If this happens, then  $\mathsf{P}$  also answers  $h^\mathsf{C}(\phi)$ .

**Verifier query.** Let  $(\phi, \pi)$  be a query to the verifier. Assume  $\pi$  was generated by a previous prover query. Since  $E_{i-1}$  holds, we have  $\pi = h^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ . Thus, stlnv succeeds in inverting  $\phi$ , and both  $\mathsf{V}_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}$  and  $\widehat{\mathsf{V}}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}}$  accept.

Assume  $\pi$  was not generated by a previous prover query. Since  $\mathcal{H}$  is a  $p_f$ -wise independent family,  $\widehat{\mathsf{V}}$  accepts with probability  $2^{-\ell(n)}$ , and  $\mathsf{V}$  accepts with probability  $\in [2^{-\ell(n)}, 2 \cdot 2^{-\ell(n)}]$ . Hence, they answer the same value with probability at least  $1 - 2^{1-\ell(n)}$ , which is at least  $1 - 2\varepsilon(n)$  for the considered n.

Combining the two cases, we deduce that  $\Pr[\neg E_i \mid E_{i-1}] \leq 2\varepsilon(n)$ , concluding the proof.

{17}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-17-0"></span>**3.3.2** The Function g

The function g, whose security is reduced to the game G, is defined using the function  $g_w \colon \mathcal{H}_n \times \{0,1\}^n \to \mathcal{H}_n \times \{0,1\}^n$ , defined by:

$$g_{\mathsf{w}}(h,x) = (h, f^{\widehat{\Pi}_h}(x)). \tag{4}$$

Let g and  $R_{\mathsf{amp}}$  be the (efficient) non-uniform function and reduction guaranteed by Lemma 2.6, such that for any efficient non-uniform A that inverts g with non-negligible probability, it holds that  $\mathsf{R}_{\mathsf{amp}}^\mathsf{A}$  inverts  $g_\mathsf{w}$  with probability at least 3/4.

# <span id="page-17-1"></span>**3.3.3** The Reduction $\hat{R}$

The black-box reduction from the one-wayness of g to the hardness of  $\mathsf{G}$  is defined as follows.

Algorithm 3.13.  $[\widehat{A}_h]$ 

Oracle: A.

Parameter:  $h \in \mathcal{H}_n$ .

Input:  $y \in \{0, 1\}^n$ .

Operation: Output  $R_{amp}^{A}(h,y)_2$ , i.e., the second output of  $R_{amp}^{A}$ 

**Algorithm 3.14.** [Reduction  $\widehat{R}$  from g to  $\mathsf{G}$ ]

Oracle: A.

Input:  $1^n$ .

Operation:

- 1. Sample  $(h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{\mathbb{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_n^2$ .
- 2. Act in  $\mathsf{G}$  according to  $\mathsf{R}^{\widehat{A}_{h^\mathsf{C}},\Pi_{h^\mathsf{C},h^\mathsf{T}}}(1^n)$ .

We prove that  $\widehat{R}$  wins  $\mathsf{G}$  with constant probability. Let p be the polynomial from Definition 3.1 with respect to  $\mathsf{R}$ .

<span id="page-17-2"></span>Claim 3.15. For any non-uniform poly-time A that inverts g with probability  $1/\text{poly for all } n \in \mathbb{N}$ , it holds that  $\widehat{R}^{\mathsf{A}}$  wins  $\mathsf{G}$  with probability 1/9p(8).

*Proof.* Let A be a non-uniform poly-time algorithm that inverts g with probability 1/poly for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ . By Lemma 2.6,  $\mathsf{R}^\mathsf{A}_{\mathsf{amp}}$  inverts  $g_\mathsf{w}$  with probability at least 3/4. Let  $(g_\mathsf{w})_y(h,x) := g_\mathsf{w}(h,x)_2$ , i.e., it outputs the second output of  $g_\mathsf{w}$ . By the definition of  $\widehat{A}$ ,

$$\Pr_{(h^{\mathsf{C}},x) \overset{\mathsf{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_n \times \{0,1\}^n; y \leftarrow (g_{\mathsf{w}})_y (h^{\mathsf{C}},x)} \left[ (g_{\mathsf{w}})_y (h^{\mathsf{C}}, \widehat{A}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}}(y)) = y \right] \ge 3/4.$$

{18}------------------------------------------------

Hence, by Claim 3.11

<span id="page-18-0"></span>
$$\Pr_{(h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}, x) \stackrel{\mathsf{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_{n}^{2} \times \{0,1\}^{n}; y \leftarrow f^{\Pi_{h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}}}(x)} \left[ f^{\Pi_{h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}}}(\widehat{A}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}}(y)) = y \right] \ge 1/4 \tag{5}$$

for all n with  $\ell(n) \geq 2 + \log 1/\varepsilon(n)$ . Since we can modify  $\widehat{A}$  to invert  $g_{\mathsf{w}}$  with probability one on all small n, in the following we assume without loss of generality that Equation (5) holds for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ . Applying a Markov argument to Equation (5), we get that

$$\Pr_{d_{n} \leftarrow (h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{\mathsf{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_{n}^{2}} \left[ \underbrace{\Pr_{x \stackrel{\mathsf{R}}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^{n}; y \leftarrow f^{\Pi_{d_{n}}}(x)}} \left[ f^{\Pi_{d_{n}}}(\widehat{A}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}}(y)) = y \right] \ge 1/8 \right] \ge 1/8$$

$$\delta(d_{n})$$

$$(6)$$

Let  $(C_G, \mathcal{I})$  be the challenger and the family of sets of the game G, respectively. For  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  and  $(h^C, h^T) \in \mathcal{H}_n^2$ , let  $C_{h^C, h^T}$  be the (possibly inefficient) algorithm that on common input  $1^n$ , acts according to  $V_{h^C, h^T}$  and outputs 1 if V accepts a statement  $x \in \{0, 1\}^n \setminus \mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}$  (i.e., the challenger of the game  $G_{V, \mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}}$  when defined only for input length n). We claim that for all  $k \in \mathbb{N}$  and infinitely many  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ :

$$\Pr_{d_n \leftarrow (h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{\mathsf{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_n^2} \left[ \underbrace{\Pr\left[ (\mathsf{R}^{\widehat{A}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}, \Pi_{d_n}}}, \mathsf{C}_{d_n})(1^n) = 1 \vee (\mathsf{R}^{\widehat{A}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}, \Pi_{d_n}}}, \mathsf{C}_{\mathsf{G}})(1^n, i_n^k) = 1 \right] \ge 1/p(8)}_{\rho(d_n)} \right] \ge 1/8 \tag{7}$$

where the inner probability is over the randomness of R. Indeed, assume Equation (7) does not hold. Hence, by Equation (6),

<span id="page-18-3"></span><span id="page-18-2"></span><span id="page-18-1"></span>
$$\Pr_{d_n}[\delta(d_n) \land \neg \rho(d_n)] > 0$$

for all but finitely many n. Hence, there exists  $\{d_n \leftarrow (h_n^{\mathsf{C}}, h_n^{\mathsf{T}}) \in \mathcal{H}_n^2\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  such that  $\delta(d_n) = 1$  and  $\rho(d_n) = 0$  for all but finitely many n. It follows that there exist a non-uniform interactive argument  $\Pi$  that gets  $\{d_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  as a non-uniform advice, and a non-uniform algorithm  $\widehat{A}$  that gets  $\{h_n^{\mathsf{C}}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  as a non-uniform advice, such that the following holds:

- $\widehat{A}$  inverts  $f^{\Pi}$  with probability at least 1/8, for all n.
- $R^{\widehat{A},\Pi}$  does not win  $G_{V,\mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}}$  nor G, with probability 1/p(8).

This, however, contradicts the definition of R, and we conclude that Equation (7) holds. We next claim that for any large enough  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ , and any  $h^{\mathsf{C}} \in \mathcal{H}_n$ , it holds that

$$\Pr_{h^{\mathsf{T}} \overset{\mathrm{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_n; d_n \leftarrow (h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}})} \left[ (\mathsf{R}^{\widehat{A}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}}, \Pi_{d_n}}, \mathsf{C}_{d_n}) (1^n) = 1 \right] \le \operatorname{neg}(n)$$
(8)

Indeed, since A was fixed before  $h^{\mathsf{T}}$  was sampled, and since g is independent of  $h^{\mathsf{T}}$ , the calls to  $\widehat{A}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}}$  reveal no information regarding  $h^{\mathsf{T}}$ . Since in addition R makes fewer than  $p_f(n)$  calls to  $\Pi_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}$ , the probability it generates an accepting proof of the form  $h^{\mathsf{T}}(\phi)$  for a statement  $\phi$  of length n that was not returned by  $\mathsf{P}_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}$  is negligible, i.e.,  $2^{-\ell(n)}$ . We also note that, by design,  $\mathsf{V}_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}$ 

{19}------------------------------------------------

does not accept instances x /∈ L<sup>R</sup> with a proof of the form h <sup>C</sup>(x) (unless h <sup>C</sup>(x) = h <sup>T</sup>(x), which occurs with negligible probability).

Combining Equations [\(7\)](#page-18-1) and [\(8\)](#page-18-3), we conclude that for all k ∈ N and infinitely many n ∈ N:

$$\Pr_{d_n \leftarrow (h^\mathsf{C}, h^\mathsf{T}) \overset{\mathrm{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{H}_n^2} \left[ (\mathsf{R}^{\widehat{A}_{h^\mathsf{C}}, \Pi_{d_n}}, \mathsf{C}_\mathsf{G}) (1^n, i_n^k) = 1 \right] \ge 1/(8p(8)) - \mathrm{neg}(n).$$

Namely, <sup>R</sup>b<sup>A</sup> wins <sup>G</sup> with probability (at least) 1/(9p(8)). □

### <span id="page-19-0"></span>3.3.4 Putting it Together

Proving the length-preserving variant of Theorem [3.2.](#page-13-1) The proof for length-preserving reductions follows directly from Claim [3.15.](#page-17-2) □

# <span id="page-19-1"></span>3.4 Proof for Arbitrary Reductions

In this section, we prove Theorem [3.2](#page-13-1) for arbitrary reductions. Let (f, R) be an assumptiondependent, fully black-box reduction from OWFs to ℓ-bit non-uniform interactive arguments for the NP-relation R, with respect to a game G, where ℓ(n) ∈ ω(log n). As in the length-preserving case, we fix the first input of R, 1t(n) , to 1<sup>8</sup> , and omit it from the notation, and assume that f only makes well-formed, valid prover-queries, i.e., (ϕ, w) ∈ R. In addition, we assume weak i.o non-uniform one-way functions do not exist.<sup>18</sup> Let p<sup>f</sup> (n) ∈ poly bound the running time of f and R, on inputs of length n. We assume without loss of generality that p<sup>f</sup> (n) is monotonically increasing, and thus the function p −1 f (n) is well defined.

### <span id="page-19-2"></span>3.4.1 The Interactive Argument

Let H = {H<sup>n</sup> = {h: {0, 1} <sup>n</sup> → {0, 1} ℓ(n) }}n∈<sup>N</sup> be an efficient p<sup>f</sup> (p<sup>I</sup> (n))-wise independent, functionfamily ensemble, where p<sup>I</sup> ∈ poly will be determined by the analysis. The non-interactive argument Π = (P, V), to which f and R will get oracle access, is defined next, using the function qry and algorithm stInv to be defined afterwards.

<sup>18</sup>In the length-preserving proof, we assumed that the query function qry, defined by the reduction, is not one-way. The very same argument, however, applies for any efficient function: if a one-way function g exists, then the trivial black-box reduction that does nothing is a black-box reduction from g to G.

{20}------------------------------------------------

```
Algorithm 3.16. [Prover P_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}]
```

Parameters:  $h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}} \in \mathcal{H}_n$ .

Input:  $(\phi, w) \in \{0, 1\}^n \times \{0, 1\}^*$ .

Operation:

- 1. If  $(\phi, w) \notin \mathcal{R}$ , return  $\perp$ .
- 2. For  $\lambda = \lceil p_f^{-1}(n) \rceil$  to  $p_f(n)$ :
  - (a) Let  $z \leftarrow \mathsf{stInv}(1^{\lambda}, \phi)$ .
  - (b) If  $qry(z) = \phi$ , return  $h^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ .
- 3. Return  $h^{\mathsf{T}}(\phi)$ .

# **Algorithm 3.17.** [Verifier $V_{h^{\mathsf{C}},h^{\mathsf{T}}}$ ]

Parameters:  $h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}} \in \mathcal{H}_n$ .

Input:  $(\phi, \pi) \in \{0, 1\}^n \times \{0, 1\}^*$ 

Operation:

- 1. If  $\pi = h^{\mathsf{T}}(\phi)$ , return 1.
- 2. If  $\pi = h^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ , for  $\lambda = \lceil p_f^{-1}(n) \rceil$  to  $p_f(n)$ :
  - (a) Let  $z \leftarrow \mathsf{stInv}(1^{\lambda}, \phi)$ .
  - (b) If  $qry(z) = \phi$ , return 1.
- 3. Return 0.

That is, the argument is similar to that of the length-preserving proof, but uses a more complicated query function qry, defined next, and a strong inverter stlnv of qry. In addition, when it calls stlnv, it does so on different input lengths. This modification comes to handle a function f that calls  $\Pi$  on instances of length different than its input length. Recall that in the length-preserving proof we effectively prevented f from accessing the hash function  $h^{\mathsf{T}}$ . Here, the above protocol only enables it to access  $h^{\mathsf{T}}$  on short input, which suffices for retaining the soundness of the interactive argument against  $\mathsf{R}$ . For the non-uniform, non-interactive argument that is defined over all input lengths, we take  $\Pi = \{(\mathsf{P}_{h_n^\mathsf{C},h_n^\mathsf{T}},\mathsf{V}_{h_n^\mathsf{C},h_n^\mathsf{T}})\}_{(h_n^\mathsf{C},h_n^\mathsf{T})\in\mathcal{H}_n}$  (the choice of hash functions will be discussed later). As in the length-preserving proof, it is easy to see that  $\Pi$  has perfect completeness, and is perfect zero knowledge.

The query function qry. To define the query function qry, we use the following notation: for  $\mathbf{h} = (h_1, h_2, \dots, h_n) \in \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^n \mathcal{H}_j = \mathcal{H}_1 \times \dots \times \mathcal{H}_n, \, k \in [n] \text{ and } x \in \{0,1\}^k, \, \text{let } \mathbf{h}(x) := (\mathbf{h})_{|x|}(x).$ 

{21}------------------------------------------------

Function 3.18. [Query function qry]

Input: 
$$(i, x, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}) \in [p_f(n)] \times \{0, 1\}^n \times \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{\lceil p_I^{-1}(n) \rceil - 1} \mathcal{H}_j$$
. Operation:

1. Emulate f(x) while answering its oracle queries as follows:

Prover query  $(\phi, w)$ :

- (a) If  $(\phi, w) \notin \mathcal{R}$ , return  $\perp$ .
- (b) If  $|\phi| \ge p_I^{-1}(n)$ , return  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ . Else, return  $\mathsf{P}_{(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}})_{|\phi|},(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_{|\phi|}}(\phi,w)$ .

Verifier query  $(\phi, \pi)$ : If  $|\phi| \ge p_I^{-1}(n)$ , return 1 if and only if  $\pi = \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ . Else, return  $\mathsf{V}_{(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}})_{|\phi|},(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_{|\phi|}}(\phi, \pi)$ .

2. If the execution reaches the  $i^{\text{th}}$  prover query  $(\phi_i, w_i)$ , return  $\phi_i$ . Else, return  $\perp$ .

That is, on "not too short statements", the query function only uses the hash function  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}$  (i.e., as in the length-preserving proof). On short statements, it acts according to  $\Pi$ .

The strong inverter stlnv and the polynomial  $p_I$ . We define the inversion algorithm stlnv, used above, and argue about the efficiency of the query function qry (and thus of  $\Pi$ ). We also address here the polynomial  $p_I$ , used above to parameterize the construction.

Defining the efficient strong inverter stlnv of the query function qry should be done with care since qry calls stlnv (on shorter inputs). Yet, below we prove that such a strong inverter exists.

Let 
$$t(n) := p_f(n) + n + \sum_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} |h_j| + \sum_{j=1}^{\gamma(n)} |h_j|$$
, where for all  $j, h_j \in \mathcal{H}_j$  and  $\gamma(n) := \lceil p_I^{-1}(n) \rceil - 1$ . Let  $\mathbb{N}_q := \{t(n) : n \in \mathbb{N}\}$ , i.e., all input lengths of qry. Let  $\varepsilon(m) := 1/p_f^3(m)$ .

<span id="page-21-0"></span>Claim 3.19 (Existence of a strong inverter for qry). There exists  $p_I \in \text{poly}$  and a poly-time, non-uniform algorithm stlnv such that

$$\Pr_{z \overset{R}{\leftarrow} \left\{0,1\right\}^m} \left[ \mathsf{stInv}(\mathsf{qry}(z)) \in \mathsf{qry}^{-1}(\mathsf{qry}(z)) \right] \geq 1 - \varepsilon(m)$$

for every  $m \in \mathbb{N}_q$ .

Claim 3.19 immediately yields that qry is also poly-time non-uniform computable. To prove Claim 3.19, we use the following lemma, proved in Section 3.4.7, which gives good control on the inversion time of an efficient function.

<span id="page-21-1"></span>**Lemma 3.20** (Universal inversion time for non-uniform functions). Assume that i.o non-uniform one-way functions do not exist. Then for every  $p_E \in \text{poly and } \varepsilon(n) \geq 1/\text{poly}(n)$ , there exists  $p_I \in \text{poly such that the following holds: for every circuit } f_n \text{ over } \{0,1\}^n \text{ of size } p_E(n), \text{ there exists a } p_I(n)\text{-size circuit } \mathsf{C}_n \text{ such that } \Pr_{x \overset{R}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n} \left[\mathsf{C}_n(f_n(x)) \in f_n^{-1}(f_n(x))\right] \geq 1 - \varepsilon(n).$ 

Namely, the size of a strong inverter of a  $p_E(n)$ -size f, is bounded by a (universal) polynomial in  $p_E(n)$ .

{22}------------------------------------------------

Proof of Claim 3.19. Let  $p_I \in \text{poly be the (smallest)}$  polynomial guaranteed by Lemma 3.20 with respect to  $p_E(m) := p_f^7(m)$  and  $\varepsilon(m)$ . We define stlnv as a (poly-size) circuit family  $\{\mathsf{stlnv}_j\}_{j \in \mathbb{N}}$ . Conveniently, we also view the query function  $\mathsf{qry}$  as a circuit family  $\{\mathsf{qry}_m\}_{m \in \mathbb{N}_q}$ .

We prove by induction on  $m \in \mathbb{N}_q$ , that  $|\operatorname{qry}_m| \leq p_E(m)$ , while defining the strong inverter stlnv along the way. We assume that  $\operatorname{qry}_m$  makes  $p_f(t^{-1}(m))$  oracle queries, an over-counting that allows us to ignore the computation cost of the parts of  $\operatorname{qry}_m$  that are not oracle queries. The base case is clear. Proving for  $m \in \mathbb{N}_q$ , the induction hypothesis yields that  $|\operatorname{qry}_{m'}| \leq p_E(m')$  for all  $m' \in \mathbb{N}_q$  with m' < m. For any such m', let  $\mathsf{C}_{m'}$  be the  $p_I(m')$ -size circuit guaranteed by Lemma 3.20, that inverts  $\operatorname{qry}_{m'}$  on inputs of length m'. For  $j \in \mathbb{N}$  with t(j) < m, let  $\operatorname{stInv}_j(\phi) := \mathsf{C}_{t(j)}(\phi)$ . We prove that

$$|\mathsf{qry}_m| \le p_E(m) \tag{9}$$

To see the above, consider an execution of the algorithm qry on an input of length m = t(n). The execution emulates f(x) for  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$ , up to the  $i^{\text{th}}$  oracle query, for  $i \in [p_f(n)]$ . In the following we bound the running time of each query  $(\phi, \cdot)$ . Let  $k \leftarrow |\phi|$ .

Case  $k \geq p_I^{-1}(n)$ . We assume without loss of generality that the polynomial that bounds the evaluation time of the hash functions  $\mathcal{H}$  (see Section 2.2) is bounded by  $p_f^2(p_I(n))$  (If this is not the case, we would consider larger  $p_f \in \text{poly}$ ). Since qry computes  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$  in this case, and since  $k \leq p_f(n)$ , the running time of this query is bounded by  $p_f^2(p_I(p_f(n)))$ .

Finally, since  $t(n) > p_I(p_f(n))$  (recall that t(n) also accounts for the description of  $h \in \mathcal{H}_{p_f(n)}$ ), we conclude that  $p_f^2(p_I(p_f(n))) \leq p_f^2(t(n)) = p_f^2(m)$ .

Case  $k < p_I^{-1}(n)$ . On such queries, qry invokes  $\Pi$  which in turn tries to invert  $\phi$  using  $\mathsf{stInv}(1^\lambda, \phi)$ , for every  $\lambda \in [\lceil p_f^{-1}(k) \rceil, p_f(k)]$ . Since m = t(n) and assuming without loss of generality that  $p_I > p_f$ , we deduce that for  $k < p_I^{-1}(n)$  it holds that  $t(p_f(k)) < m$ . Thus, we can apply the induction hypothesis to deduce that  $\mathsf{qry}$  can be computed in time  $p_E(t(p_f(k)))$ . Hence, by Lemma 3.20, the computation size (and running time) of each inversion attempt is bounded by  $p_I(t(p_f(k))) \le t(p_f(n)) \le p_f(m)$ . Finally, since  $\Pi$  makes at most  $p_f(k)$  inversion attempts, the total emulation time is bounded by  $p_f(k) \cdot p_f(m) \le p_f(m)^2 \le p_f^2(m)$ .

Since qry makes at most  $p_f(n)$  queries, its total running time is bounded by  $p_f^3(m)$ . Since we can assume without loss of generality that the size of the non-uniform advice of f on input length n (and thus of qry on input length m) is bounded by  $p_f(n)$ , and that the description of the algorithm f is included in its non-uniform advice, we conclude that  $qry_m$  can be computed by a circuit of size  $(p_f^3(m) + p_f(n))^2 < p_E(m)$ .

Since the above also defines the circuit family  $\{\mathsf{stInv}_j\}_{j\in\mathbb{N}}$  of size  $p_I(t(j)) \in \mathsf{poly}(j)$ , and proves that it inverts  $\mathsf{qry}$  with probability  $1 - \varepsilon(m)$  for all  $m \in \mathbb{N}_q$ , this concludes the proof.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>19</sup>Clearly, for such a family there exists a poly-time, non-uniform algorithm that computes it, as required by the claim.

 $<sup>^{20}</sup>$ While polynomial composition is not commutative for arbitrary polynomials, it does hold in our case since without loss of generality the leading coefficients of t and  $p_f$  are one.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>21</sup>This holds since without loss of generality  $p_f$  is of degree at least two.

{23}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-23-0"></span>**3.4.2** The Query Function of $f^{\Pi}$

A key observation is that the above "query function" qry emulates well the (real) query function induced by  $f^{\Pi}$ —the queries  $f^{\Pi}$  makes to the oracles in a random execution. (We later use this fact to deduce that an inverter for qry is also an inverter for the query function induced by  $f^{\Pi}$ .)

As in the length-preserving proof, we consider the function  $f_{\text{trace}}^{\Pi}$  that on input  $x \in \{0, 1\}^*$ , outputs x and all oracle queries/answers made by  $f^{\Pi}(x)$ . We compare it to the function  $\text{qry}_{\text{trace}}$  that on input  $(x, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})$ , outputs x and the oracle queries/answers made by the emulated execution of f in the execution of  $\text{qry}(p_f(|x|), x, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})$ . Specifically, we show that the output distributions of these transcript functions are statistically close.

<span id="page-23-1"></span>Claim 3.21 (Similarity between 
$$f_{\mathsf{trace}}^{\Pi}$$
 and  $\mathsf{qry}_{\mathsf{trace}}$ ). For every  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ :  $SD(f_{\mathsf{trace}}^{\Pi_{H^{\mathsf{C}},H^{\mathsf{T}}}}(X),\mathsf{qry}_{\mathsf{trace}}(X,H^{\mathsf{C}},\widetilde{H^{\mathsf{T}}})) \leq p_f(n) \cdot 2^{-\ell(p_I^{-1}(n))}, \ where \ X \leftarrow U_n, \ (H^{\mathsf{C}},H^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{R}{\leftarrow} (\mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)}\mathcal{H}_j)^2$  and  $\widetilde{H^{\mathsf{T}}} \leftarrow (H^{\mathsf{T}})_{\leq \lceil p_I^{-1}(n) \rceil - 1}$ .

*Proof.* We prove the claim by presenting a random process, parameterized by n, whose output distribution is identical to that of  $\mathsf{qry}_{\mathsf{trace}}$ , and statistically close to that of  $f_{\mathsf{trace}}^{\Pi}$ .

# Algorithm 3.22.

- 1. Sample  $(x, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{\mathbb{R}}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^n \times (\mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{\lceil p_I^{-1}(n) \rceil 1} \mathcal{H}_j)^2$ .
- 2. Sample  $a_1, \ldots, a_{p_f(n)} \stackrel{\mathbb{R}}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^{\ell(p_f(n))}$ .
- 3. Execute f(x) while answering its  $i^{\text{th}}$  oracle query  $(\phi, z)$  as follows:

Short queries  $|\phi| \leq \lceil p_I^{-1}(n) \rceil - 1$ : Return according to  $\Pi_{(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}})_{|\phi|}, (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_{|\phi|}}$ .

Long queries  $|\phi| > \lceil p_I^{-1}(n) \rceil - 1$ :

**Prover query:** Return  $(a_i)_{\leq \ell(|\phi|)}$ .

**Verifier query:** If z was an answer to a previous prover query  $(\phi, \cdot)$ , accept. Otherwise, accept with probability  $2^{-\ell(|\phi|)}$ .

4. Output the transcript of the execution.

The only difference between  $qry_{trace}$  and  $f_{trace}^{\Pi}$  is the way long queries are answered; in  $qry_{trace}$ , it is (always) according to  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}$ . In  $f_{trace}^{\Pi}$ , it is according to  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}$  if the inversion succeeds, and according to  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}$  otherwise. We separately analyze prover and verifier queries.

**Prover queries.** Since the number of queries made by f (and thus by qry) is smaller than the many-wise independence of the hash functions used for such long queries  $(|\phi| > p_I^{-1}(n)$ , hence  $p_f(p_I(|\phi|)) > p_f(n)$ ), in both cases the hash functions' answers are uniform values, which is exactly what the prover replies in the above random process.

Verifier queries. In both cases the verifier accepts if the proof  $\pi$  is consistent with the value that is generated by the prover. In the case where the verifier query was not generated by a prior prover query, in  $\mathsf{qry}_{\mathsf{trace}}$  the verifier accepts only if the proof matches  $\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C}$ , i.e., with probability  $2^{-\ell(|\phi|)}$ , as in the random process. In  $f_{\mathsf{trace}}^\Pi$ , the verifier accepts if the proof matches  $\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}$ , and

{24}------------------------------------------------

might also accept if the proof matches  $\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C}$ . The probability that the proof matches at least one of the hashes is at most  $2 \cdot 2^{-\ell(|\phi|)}$ . Since the number of queries is bounded by  $p_f(n)$  and the length of the statement in such verifier queries is at least  $p_I^{-1}(n)$ , by a union bound, the statistical difference between the distributions is at most  $p_f(n) \cdot 2^{-\ell(p_I^{-1}(n))}$ .

### <span id="page-24-0"></span>3.4.3 The Punctured Argument

Towards defining the function g, whose one-wayness can be reduced to the game G, we define the "punctured" variant  $\Pi^{\mathsf{punct}}$  of  $\Pi$  such that: (1) Inverting a function with oracle access to  $\Pi^{\mathsf{punct}}$  is not useful for breaking the security of  $\Pi$ . (2) The execution of  $f^{\Pi^{\mathsf{punct}}}$  is close to that of  $f^{\Pi}$ . The above is achieved by removing the access to the hash function  $h^{\mathsf{T}}$  on the relevant input lengths (i.e., we "punctured"  $\Pi$ ). Let  $\mathsf{tr}(n) := \lceil p_f^{-1}(n) \rceil - 1$ .

# **Algorithm 3.23.** [Prover $P_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}^{\mathsf{punct}}$ ]

Parameters:  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}} \in \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} \mathcal{H}_j, \ \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}} \in \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j.$ 

Input:  $(\phi, w) \in (\{0, 1\}^*)^2$ .

Operation:

- 1. If  $(\phi, w) \notin \mathcal{R}$  or  $|\phi| > p_f(n)$ , return  $\perp$ .
- 2. If  $|\phi| > \operatorname{tr}(n)$ , return  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ .
- 3. Return  $\mathsf{P}_{(\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C})_{|\phi|},(\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T})_{|\phi|}}(\phi,w)$ .

# Algorithm 3.24. [Verifier $V_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}^{\mathsf{punct}}$ ]

Parameters:  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}} \in \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} \mathcal{H}_j, \ \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}} \in \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j.$ 

Input:  $(\phi, \pi) \in (\{0, 1\}^*)^2$ .

Operation:

- 1. If  $|\phi| > p_f(n)$ , return 0.
- 2. If  $|\phi| > \operatorname{tr}(n)$ : return 1 if  $\pi = \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$  and 0 otherwise.
- 3. Return  $V_{(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}})_{|\phi|},(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_{|\phi|}}(\phi,\pi)$ .

That is,  $\Pi^{\text{punct}}$  operates similarly to  $\Pi$ , but the parties use *only*  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}$  for long statements. We prove that the executions of  $f^{\Pi}$  and  $f^{\Pi^{\text{punct}}}$  are similar (analogous to Claim 3.11 in the length-preserving proof).

For  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}$ ,  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}} \in (\mathbf{X}_{j=1}^{n} \mathcal{H}_{j})^{2}$ , let  $\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}$  be the argument that on input  $(\phi, \cdot) \in \{0, 1\}^{k} \times \{0, 1\}^{*}$ , for  $k \leq n$ , acts according to  $\Pi_{(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}})_{k}, (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_{k}}$ .

<span id="page-24-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>22</sup>In the length-preserving proof, the role of  $\Pi^{\text{punct}}$  was played by the hash-based argument  $\widehat{\Pi}$ .

{25}------------------------------------------------

Claim 3.25 (Similarity between  $f^{\Pi}$  and  $f^{\Pi^{\text{punct}}}$ ).

$$\Pr_{(\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C}, \mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}, x) \xleftarrow{R} \left( \mathbf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \right)^2 \times \{0,1\}^n} \left[ f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C}, \mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}}}(x) \neq f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C}, (\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}) \leq \mathsf{tr}(n)}^\mathsf{punct}}(x) \right] \leq 1/2.$$

for all n with  $\ell(n) \geq 2 + \log(p_f^4(p_I(n)))$ .

*Proof.* As in Claim 3.11, we prove the (stronger) statement that the execution traces of  $f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}}(x)$  and  $f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})\leq \operatorname{tr}(n)}}(x)$ , for uniform x and  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}$ , are 1/2 close. The proof is by coupling the two distributions.

**Algorithm 3.26.** [Coupling  $f^{\Pi}$  and  $f^{\Pi^{\text{punct}}}$ ]

- 1. Sample  $(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}, x) \stackrel{\mathbb{R}}{\leftarrow} (\mathbf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} \mathcal{H}_j)^2 \times \{0, 1\}^n$ .
- 2. Let trace and trace<sup>punct</sup> denote the traces of the executions of  $f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}}(x)$  and  $f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})\leq \mathsf{tr}(n)}}(x)$ , respectively.
- 3. Return (trace, trace<sup>punct</sup>).

Let  $E_i$  be the event that trace and trace<sup>punct</sup> are identical up to the  $i^{\text{th}}$  query. We show that for every  $i \in [p_f(n)]$  it holds that  $\Pr[\neg E_i \mid E_{i-1}] \leq 3\varepsilon(n)$ , and since  $3\varepsilon(n) \cdot p_f(n) \leq 1/2$ , the proof follows by a union bound. Assume  $E_{i-1}$  holds. Clearly, the  $i^{\text{th}}$  query generated by f is the same in both executions. We analyze the probability that the oracle responses differ (i.e.,  $\neg E_i$  occurs), separately handling prover and verifier queries.

**Prover query.** Let  $(\phi, w)$  be a query to the prover. By our assumption on f,  $(\phi, w) \in \mathcal{R}$ . Note that if  $|\phi| < \lceil p_f^{-1}(n) \rceil$ , then the execution of  $\mathsf{P}^{\mathsf{punct}}$  is identical to that of  $\mathsf{P}$ , and therefore their output is the same. Thus, it remains to handle the case  $|\phi| \in [\lceil p_f^{-1}(n) \rceil, p_f(n)]$ . On such a query,  $\mathsf{P}^{\mathsf{punct}}$  returns  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ , whereas the response of  $\mathsf{P}$  depends on the success of stlnv. Specifically,  $\mathsf{P}$  calls  $\mathsf{stlnv}(1^\lambda, \phi)$  for all  $j \in [\lceil p_f^{-1}(|\phi|) \rceil, p_f(|\phi|)]$ , and if one of the calls succeeds, it also returns  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ . Note that  $\phi$  is a uniform query of  $f^{\mathsf{\Pi}}$ , with respect to uniform choice of  $(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}, x)$ , conditioned on  $E_{i-1}$ , and that by the induction assumption,  $E_{i-1}$  occurs with probability at least 1/2. Also recall that by Claim 3.21, the output distribution of  $\mathsf{qry}$  and the query distribution of  $f^{\mathsf{\Pi}}$  are  $1 - \varepsilon(n)$  close, for the considered n (with respect to uniform choice of  $(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}, x)$ ). Finally note that,  $f^{\mathsf{\Pi}}$ , via the inversion attempts of  $\mathsf{\Pi}$ , calls  $\mathsf{stlnv}_n(\phi)$ . Thus, by Claim 3.19 the inverter  $\mathsf{stlnv}$  finds a preimage and  $\mathsf{P}$  returns  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi)$ , with probability at least  $1 - 2\varepsilon(t(n)) - \varepsilon(n) \ge 1 - 3\varepsilon(n)$ .

**Verifier query.** Let  $(\phi, \pi)$  be a query to the verifier. If  $\pi$  was generated by a previous prover query, both V and V<sup>punct</sup> accept. So in the following, we assume  $\pi$  was not generated previously in the execution. If  $|\phi| < \lceil p_f^{-1}(n) \rceil$ , the execution of V<sup>punct</sup> is *identical* to that of V, and therefore their output is identical. If  $|\phi| \ge \lceil p_f^{-1}(n) \rceil$ , since  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}$  and  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}$  are sampled from a  $p_f(p_I(|\phi|))$ -wise independent family for input size  $|\phi|$ , the probability that  $\pi \in \{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}(\phi), \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}(\phi)\}$  is  $2 \cdot 2^{-\ell(|\phi|)} \le 3\varepsilon(n)$ .

Combining the two cases, we deduce that  $\Pr[\neg E_i \mid E_{i-1}] \leq 3\varepsilon(n)$ .

{26}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-26-0"></span>**3.4.4** The Function g

We are now ready to define the function g, whose security is reduced to the game G. As in the length-preserving proof, we define g to be the weak-to-strong amplification of the function  $g_{\mathsf{w}} \colon \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j \times \mathsf{Y}_j$ 

$$g_{\mathsf{w}}(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}, x) = (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}, f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}}(x))$$
 (10)

Let g and  $R_{amp}$  be the (efficient) function and reduction guaranteed by Lemma 2.6 such that for every PPT A that inverts g with non-negligible probability,  $R_{amp}^{A}$  inverts  $g_{w}$  with probability 3/4.

# <span id="page-26-1"></span>**3.4.5** The Reduction $\hat{R}$

We now define the reduction  $\widehat{R}$  from the one-wayness of g to the security of G. We use the following wrapper algorithm.

Algorithm 3.27.  $[\widehat{A}_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}]$ 

Parameter:  $(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}) \in \{\mathcal{H}_j\}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} \times \{\mathcal{H}_j\}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)}$ .

Oracle: A. Input: y.

Operation: Return  $R_{amp}^{A}(\mathbf{h}^{C}, \mathbf{h}^{T}, y)_{3}$ , i.e., the third output of  $R_{amp}^{A}$ .

**Algorithm 3.28.** [Reduction  $\widehat{R}$  from g to  $\mathsf{G}$ ]

Oracle: A.

Input:  $1^n$ .

Operation:

- 1. Sample  $(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{\mathbb{R}}{\leftarrow} (\mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f^2(n)} \mathcal{H}_j)^2$ .
- 2. Play in G according to  $R^{\widehat{A}_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})\leq n-1},\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}},\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}}(1^{n})$ .

Note that  $\widehat{R}$  samples the hash functions up to  $\mathcal{H}_{p_f^2(n)}$ , since the reduction R on input of length n might call the inverter of f with input of length  $p_f(n)$ . In that inversion, the execution of f might call the interactive argument on inputs of length  $p_f(p_f(n))$ . The following claim shows that  $\widehat{R}$  is indeed a reduction from the one-wayness of g to the game G. Let p be the polynomial from Definition 3.1 with respect to R.

<span id="page-26-2"></span>Claim 3.29. For any non-uniform poly-time A that inverts g with probability  $1/\text{poly for all } n \in \mathbb{N}$ , it holds that  $\widehat{R}^{\mathsf{A}}$  wins  $\mathsf{G}$  with probability at least 1/(9p(8)).

{27}------------------------------------------------

*Proof.* The proof follows similar lines to that of Claim 3.15 (used in the length-preserving case), but taking into account that the reduction R might query the inverter of f on arbitrary input lengths.

Let A be a non-uniform poly-time algorithm that inverts g with probability 1/poly for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ . By Lemma 2.6,  $\mathsf{R}_{\mathsf{amp}}^{\mathsf{A}}$  inverts  $g_{\mathsf{w}}$  with probability at least 3/4. Let  $(g_{\mathsf{w}})_y(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}, x) := g_{\mathsf{w}}(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}, x)_3$ , i.e., it outputs the third output of  $g_{\mathsf{w}}$ . By the definition of  $\widehat{A}$ ,

$$\Pr_{(\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C},\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T},x) \overset{\mathrm{R}}{\leftarrow} \left( \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{\mathsf{tr}(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \{0,1\}^n \right); y \leftarrow (g_\mathsf{w})_y (\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C},\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T},x)} \left[ (g_\mathsf{w})_y (\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C},\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T},\widehat{A}_{\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C},\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}}(y)) = y \right] \geq 3/4.$$

Hence, by Claim 3.25,

<span id="page-27-0"></span>
$$\Pr_{(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}, x) \overset{\mathcal{R}}{\leftarrow} \left( (\mathbf{X}_{j=1}^{p_{f}(n)} \mathcal{H}_{j})^{2} \times \{0,1\}^{n} \right); y \leftarrow f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}(x)} \left[ f^{\Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}} (\widehat{A}_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}) \leq \mathsf{tr}(n)}(y)) = y \right] \geq 1/4$$
(11)

for all n with  $\ell(n) \geq 2 + \log p_f^4(p_I(n))$ . Since we can modify  $\widehat{A}$  to invert  $g_w$  with probability one on all small n, in the following we assume without loss of generality that Equation (11) holds for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ . Applying a Markov argument to Equation (11), we get that

$$\Pr_{d_{n} \leftarrow (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{\mathsf{R}}{\leftarrow} \left( \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_{f}(n)} \mathcal{H}_{j} \right)^{2} \left[ \underbrace{\underset{x \in \{0,1\}^{n}; y \leftarrow f^{\Pi} d_{n}(x)}{\Pr} \left[ f^{\Pi_{d_{n}}} \left( \widehat{A}_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}) \leq \mathsf{tr}(n)}(y) \right) = y \right] \geq 1/8}_{\delta(d_{n})} \right] \geq 1/8 \tag{12}$$

Let  $(C_{\mathsf{G}}, \mathcal{I})$  be the challenger and the family of sets of the game  $\mathsf{G}$ , respectively. For  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  and  $(h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}) \in \mathcal{H}_n^2$ , let  $\mathsf{C}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}}$  be the (possibly inefficient) algorithm that on common input  $1^n$ , acts according to  $\mathsf{V}_{h^{\mathsf{C}}, h^{\mathsf{T}}}$  and outputs 1 if  $\mathsf{V}$  accepts a statement  $x \in \{0, 1\}^n \setminus \mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}$  (i.e., the challenger of the game  $\mathsf{G}_{\mathsf{V}, \mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}}$  when defined only for input length n). We claim that for all  $k \in \mathbb{N}$  and infinitely many  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ :

$$\Pr_{d_{n} \leftarrow (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}) \stackrel{\mathsf{R}}{\leftarrow} \left( \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_{f}^{2}(n)} \mathcal{H}_{j} \right)^{2} : d_{n}' \leftarrow (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_{\leq n-1})} \left[ \underbrace{\Pr\left[ \left( \mathsf{R}^{\widehat{A} d_{n}', \Pi_{d_{n}}}, \mathsf{C}_{(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}})_{n}, (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_{n}} \right) (1^{n}) = 1}_{\rho(d_{n})} \right] \geq 1/p(8)}_{\rho(d_{n})} \right] \geq 1/8$$

$$(13)$$

where the inner probability is over the randomness of R. Indeed, assume Equation (13) does not hold. Hence, by Equation (12),

<span id="page-27-2"></span><span id="page-27-1"></span>
$$\Pr_{d_n}[\delta(d_n) \wedge \neg \rho(d_n)] > 0$$

for all but finitely many n, where we naturally define  $\delta(d_n)$  for  $d_n \in (\mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f^2(n)} \mathcal{H}_j)^2$ , by  $\delta((d_n)_{\leq p_f(n)})$ . Hence, there exists  $\{d_n \leftarrow (\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C}, \mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}) \in (\mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f^2(n)} \mathcal{H}_j)^2\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  such that  $\delta(d_n) = 1$  and  $\rho(d_n) = 0$  for all but finitely many n. It follows that there exist a non-uniform interactive argument  $\Pi$  that gets  $\{d_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  as a non-uniform advice, and a non-uniform algorithm  $\widehat{A}$  that gets  $\{\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C} = (h_1^\mathsf{C}, \dots, h_{p_f(n)}^\mathsf{C}), \mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T} = (h^\mathsf{T}, \dots, h_{\mathsf{tr}(n)}^\mathsf{T})\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  as a non-uniform advice, such that the following holds:

- $\widehat{A}$  inverts  $f^{\Pi}$  with probability at least 1/8, for all n.
- $R^{\widehat{A},\Pi}$  does not win  $G_{V,\mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}}$  nor G, with probability 1/p(8).

{28}------------------------------------------------

This, however, contradicts the definition of R, and we conclude that Equation (13) holds.

We next claim that for large enough  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  and any  $(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}_1^{\mathsf{T}}) \in (\mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f^2(n)} \mathcal{H}_j \times \mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{n-1} \mathcal{H}_j)$ :

$$\Pr_{\mathbf{h}_{2}^{\mathsf{T}} \stackrel{\mathsf{R}}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{X}_{j=n}^{p_{f}^{2}(n)} \mathcal{H}_{j}; \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}} \leftarrow (\mathbf{h}_{1}^{\mathsf{T}}, \mathbf{h}_{2}^{\mathsf{T}})} \left[ \left( \mathsf{R}^{\widehat{A}_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}_{1}^{\mathsf{T}}, \Pi_{\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}}, \mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}}}, \mathsf{C}_{(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{C}})_{n}, (\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_{n}} \right) (1^{n}) = 1 \right] \leq \operatorname{neg}(n)$$
(14)

To see this, first note that since R queries its oracles on input lengths bounded by  $p_f(n)$ , it invokes  $\widehat{A}$  on inputs of that length. By construction, on inputs of this length, the function  $g_{\mathbf{w}}$  is independent of the function  $(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_n$ . Hence, R gets no information regarding  $(\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}})_n$  from the oracle calls to  $\widehat{A}$ . Hence, and since R makes fewer than  $p_f(n)$  calls to  $\Pi$ , the probability it generates an accepting proof of the form  $\mathbf{h}^{\mathsf{T}}(\phi)$  for a statement  $\phi$  of length n that was not returned by  $\mathsf{P}_{\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C},\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}}$  is negligible. We also note that, by design,  $\mathsf{V}_{\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C},\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}}$  does not accept instances  $x \notin \mathcal{L}_{\mathcal{R}}$  with a proof of the form  $\mathsf{h}^\mathsf{C}(x)$  (unless  $\mathsf{h}^\mathsf{C}(x) = \mathsf{h}^\mathsf{T}(x)$ , which occurs with negligible probability).

Combining Equations (13) and (14), we conclude that for all  $k \in \mathbb{N}$  and infinitely many  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ :

$$\Pr_{\substack{d_n \leftarrow (\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C}, \mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}) \overset{\mathrm{R}}{\leftarrow} (\mathsf{X}_{j=1}^{p_f^2(n)} \mathcal{H}_j)^2}} \left[ (\mathsf{R}^{\widehat{A}_{\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{C}, (\mathbf{h}^\mathsf{T}) \leq n-1}, \Pi_{d_n}}, \mathsf{C}_\mathsf{G}) (1^n, i_n^k) = 1 \right] \geq 1/(8p(8)) - \mathrm{neg}(n).$$

Namely,  $\widehat{R}^{\mathsf{A}}$  wins  $\mathsf{G}$  with probability at least 1/(9p(8)).

### <span id="page-28-0"></span>3.4.6 Putting it Together

Proof of Theorem 3.2. The proof follows directly from Claim 3.29.

#### <span id="page-28-1"></span>3.4.7 Missing proofs

In this section, we prove Lemma 3.20, restated below

**Lemma 3.30** (Restatement of Lemma 3.20). Assume that i.o non-uniform one-way functions do not exist. Then for every  $p_E \in \text{poly and } \varepsilon(n) \geq 1/\text{poly}(n)$ , there exists  $p_I \in \text{poly such that the}$  following holds: for every circuit  $f_n$  over  $\{0,1\}^n$  of size  $p_E(n)$ , there exists a  $p_I(n)$ -size circuit  $C_n$  such that  $\Pr_{x \leftarrow \{0,1\}^n} \left[ C_n(f_n(x)) \in f_n^{-1}(f_n(x)) \right] \geq 1 - \varepsilon(n)$ .

Proof. Assume i.o non-uniform one-way functions do not exist, and fix  $p_E \in \text{poly}$  and  $\varepsilon(n) \geq 1/\text{poly}(n)$ . We prove that there exists  $c \in \mathbb{N}$  such that for every  $n \geq c$  and every circuit  $f_n$  over  $\{0,1\}^n$  of size  $p_E(n)$ , there exists an  $(n^c+c)$ -size circuit  $\mathsf{C}_n$  such that  $\Pr_{x \leftarrow \{0,1\}^n} \left[ \mathsf{C}_n(f_n(x)) \in f_n^{-1}(f_n(x)) \right] \geq 1-\varepsilon(n)$ . The lemma now follows by considering for every  $f_n$  computable in size  $p_E(n)$  for input length shorter than c, the circuit of size b that encodes the value of  $f_n$  on all inputs of that length (b is a constant that depends strictly on c). Therefore, the lemma holds for  $p_I = n^c + c + b$ .

Assume towards a contradiction that for every  $c \in \mathbb{N}$  there exist  $n \geq c$  and  $f_n^c$  computable in size  $p_E(n)$  for input length n, that satisfies the following: for any  $(n^c + c)$ -size circuit  $C_n$ ,

$$\Pr_{x \stackrel{\mathbf{R}}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n} \left[ \mathsf{C}_n(f_n^c(x)) \in (f_n^c)^{-1}(f_n^c(x)) \right] < 1 - \varepsilon(n)$$
(15)

<span id="page-28-2"></span>

{29}------------------------------------------------

Let g be the  $p_E(n)$ -size circuit family that on input  $x \in (\{0,1\}^n)^n$ , outputs  $(f_n^1(x_1), \ldots, f_n^n(x_n))$ . Since, by assumption, weak i.o non-uniform one-way functions do not exist, there exist a constant c and an  $n^c + c$ -size circuit family  $\{\mathsf{C}_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  such that

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \stackrel{\mathrm{R}}{\leftarrow} (\{0,1\}^n)^n}} \left[ \mathsf{C}_{n^2}(g_{n^2}(x)) \in g_{n^2}^{-1}(g_{n^2}(x)) \right] > 1 - \varepsilon(n^2)$$
(16)

for every  $n \in \mathbb{N}^{23}$ 

For  $c' \leftarrow 2c$ , define the circuit family  $C' = \{C'_n\}_{n \geq c'}$  by letting  $C'_n$  on input  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$ , return  $(C_{n^2}(x_1,\ldots,x_n))_{c'}$ , for  $x_{c'} \leftarrow x$ , where  $\{x_j : j \neq c'\}$  are chosen to maximize  $C_{n^2}$  inversion probability. It is easy to see that

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \stackrel{\mathrm{R}}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n}} \left[ \mathsf{C}'_n(f_n^{c'}(x)) \in (f_n^{c'})^{-1}(f_n^{c'}(x)) \right] > 1 - \varepsilon(n^2)$$

for every  $n \ge c'$ . Since  $|\mathsf{C}'_n| \le n^{2c} + c$ , this stands in contradiction to the assumption regarding  $f_n^{c'}$ .

### <span id="page-29-0"></span>3.5 Reductions from Auxiliary-Input One-Way Functions

In this section, we explain how to extend our results to reductions with respect to auxiliary-input one-way functions. We start by recalling the notion of (i.o) auxiliary-input one-way functions.

**Definition 3.31** (Auxiliary-input one-way functions). A poly-time function  $f: \{0,1\}^{p(n)} \times \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^*$  for some  $p \in \text{poly is a.i}$  one-way with respect to  $\mathcal{I} = \{\mathcal{I}_n \subseteq \{0,1\}^{p(n)}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$ , if for any PPT A there exists  $\{z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  such that

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \stackrel{R}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n \\ y \leftarrow f_{z_n}(x)}} [f_{z_n}(\mathsf{A}(1^n, z_n, y)) = y] \le \operatorname{neg}(n)$$

for infinitely many n, where  $f_{z_n}(\cdot) := f(z_n, \cdot)$ . Weak a.i one-way functions and non-uniform a.i one-way functions are analogously defined.

Our main result naturally extends to a.i one-way functions.

<span id="page-29-1"></span>**Theorem 3.32** (Restatement of Theorem 3.2 with respect to a.i one-way functions). Let (f, R) be an assumption-dependent fully black-box reduction from an auxiliary-input one-way function with respect to a set  $\mathcal{I}$  to non-laconic, non-uniform,  $\ell$ -bit interactive arguments for an NP-relation  $\mathcal{R}$ , with respect to a game G. Then there exist a non-uniform, poly-time pair of function g and an oracle-aided randomized algorithm  $\widehat{R}$ , and a constant c > 0, such that for any non-uniform poly-time Inv that inverts  $g_{z_n}$  with probability  $1/\operatorname{poly}(n)$  for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  and  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n$ , algorithm  $\widehat{R}^{\mathsf{Inv}}$  wins the game G with probability at least c.

Moreover, the above holds even if the reduction only needs to work when the interactive argument oracle is perfect zero knowledge.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>23</sup>Since the non-uniform function variant of f is not a weak i.o non-uniform one-way function, it is strongly invertible, therefore has a  $(1 - \varepsilon(n))$  non-uniform inverter A (which can be converted to an  $n^c + c$ -size family of circuits) for any  $n \ge n'$  for some  $n', c \in \mathbb{N}$ . Therefore, as discussed above, it has an  $n^{c'} + c'$ -size family of circuits that inverts it with probability  $1 - \varepsilon(n)$ , for any n, where  $c' \ge c$ .

{30}------------------------------------------------

The proof of Theorem 3.32 follows very closely to that of Theorem 3.2, while using the following lemma instead of Lemma 3.20.

<span id="page-30-0"></span>**Lemma 3.33.** Assume that a.i non-uniform one-way functions do not exist. Then for every  $p, p_E \in \text{poly and } \varepsilon(n) \geq 1/\text{poly}(n)$ , there exists  $p_I \in \text{poly such that the following holds: for every circuit } f_n: \{0,1\}^{p(n)} \times \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^* \text{ of size } p_E(n) \text{ and every } \mathcal{I}_n \subseteq \{0,1\}^{p(n)}, \text{ there exists a } p_I(n)\text{-size circuit } \mathsf{C}_n \text{ such that } \Pr_{x \in \{0,1\}^n} \left[\mathsf{C}_n(z_n, f_{z_n}(x)) \in f_{z_n}^{-1}(f_{z_n}(x))\right] \geq 1 - \varepsilon(n), \text{ for all } z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n.$ 

Namely, as in the case of standard one-way functions, if a.i one-way functions do not exist, then any efficient non-uniform function with auxiliary input is strongly invertible.

Given Lemma 3.33, the proof of Theorem 3.32 is a simple adaptation of that of Theorem 3.2.

### Proving Lemma 3.33.

*Proof of Lemma 3.33.* The proof is similar to that of Lemma 3.20, with respect to a.i one-way functions.

Assume a.i non-uniform one-way functions do not exist, and fix  $p, p_E \in \text{poly}$  and  $\varepsilon(n) \geq 1/\text{poly}(n)$ . We prove that there exists  $c \in \mathbb{N}$  such that for every  $n \geq c$  and every circuit  $f_n$  over  $\{0,1\}^{p(n)} \times \{0,1\}^n$  of size  $p_E(n)$  and  $\mathcal{I}_n \subseteq \{0,1\}^{p(n)}$ , there exists an  $(n^c + c)$ -size circuit  $C_n$  such that  $\Pr_{x \in \{0,1\}^n} \left[ C_n(z_n, f_{z_n}(x)) \in f_{z_n}^{-1}(f_{z_n}(x)) \right] \geq 1 - \varepsilon(n)$  for all  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n$ . The lemma now follows by considering for every  $\mathcal{I}_n$  and  $f_n$  computable in size  $p_E(n)$  for input length shorter than c, the circuit of size b that encodes the value of  $f_n$  on all inputs of that length and all  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n$  (b is a constant that depends strictly on c). Therefore, the lemma holds for  $p_I = n^c + c + b$ .

Assume towards a contradiction that for every  $c \in \mathbb{N}$  there exist  $n \geq c$ , set  $\mathcal{I}_n^c \subseteq \{0,1\}^{p(n)}$  and  $f_n^c$  computable in size  $p_E(n)$  for input length n and auxiliary input length p(n), that satisfies the following: for any  $(n^c + c)$ -size circuit  $C_n$ , there exists  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n^c$  such that:

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \in \{0,1\}^n}} \left[ \mathsf{C}_n(z_n, f_{z_n}^c(x)) \in (f_{z_n}^c)^{-1} (f_{z_n}^c(x)) \right] < 1 - \varepsilon(n)$$
(17)

Let  $\mathcal{I} := \{\mathcal{I}_n = \{(z^1, \dots, z^n) \in \mathcal{I}_n^1 \times \dots \times \mathcal{I}_n^n\}\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  and let g be the  $p_E(n)$ -size circuit family that on input  $x \in (\{0,1\}^n)^n$  and auxiliary input  $z_n = (z^1, \dots, z^n) \in \mathcal{I}_n^{24}$ , outputs  $(f_{z^1}^1(x_1), \dots, f_{z^n}^n(x_n))$ . Since, by assumption, weak a.i non-uniform one-way functions do not exist, there exist a constant c and an  $n^c + c$ -size circuit family  $\{\mathsf{C}_n\}_{n \in \mathbb{N}}$  such that

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \stackrel{\mathrm{R}}{\leftarrow} (\{0,1\}^n)^n}} \left[ \mathsf{C}_{n^2}(z_n, g_{z_n}(x)) \in g_{z_n}^{-1}(g_{z_n}(x)) \right] > 1 - \varepsilon(n^2)$$
(18)

for every  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  and every  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n$ .<sup>25</sup>

For  $c' \leftarrow 2c$ , define the circuit family  $C' = \{C'_n\}_{n \geq c'}$  by letting  $C'_n$  on input  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$  and auxiliary input  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n^{c'}$ , return  $(C_{n^2}((z_n^1, \ldots, z_n^n), (x_1, \ldots, x_n)))_{c'}$ , for  $x_{c'} \leftarrow x$  and  $z_n^{c'} \leftarrow z_n$ ,

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>24</sup>On input length  $n^2$ , the function g expects to receive auxiliary input of size  $p(n^2)$  and not  $n \cdot p(n)$ , as defined. To handle it, assume without loss of generality that  $p(n^2) \ge n \cdot p(n)$ , and that g receives extra auxiliary information which it ignores.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>25</sup>Since the non-uniform function variant of f is not weak a.i one-way, it has a  $(1 - \varepsilon(n))$  non-uniform inverter A (which can be converted to an  $n^c + c$ -size family of circuits) for any  $n \ge n'$  and any  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n$ , for some  $n', c \in \mathbb{N}$ . Therefore, it has a  $n^{c'} + c'$ -size family of circuits that inverts it for any n and any  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n$ .

{31}------------------------------------------------

where  $\{x_j : j \neq c'\}$  are chosen to maximize  $C_{n^2}$ 's inversion probability, and  $\{z_n^j : j \neq c'\}$  are fixed to arbitrary values. It is easy to see that

$$\Pr_{\substack{x \stackrel{\mathrm{R}}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n}} \left[ \mathsf{C}'_n(z_n, f_{z_n}^{c'}(x)) \in (f_{z_n}^{c'})^{-1} (f_{z_n}^{c'}(x)) \right] > 1 - \varepsilon(n^2)$$

for every  $n \geq c'$  and  $z_n \in \mathcal{I}_n^{c'}$ . Since  $|C'_n| \leq n^{2c} + c$ , this contradicts the assumption regarding  $f_n^{c'}$ .

# Acknowledgment

We thank Noam Mazor for very insightful discussions.

# References

- <span id="page-31-4"></span>[ACK21] Thomas Attema, Ronald Cramer, and Lisa Kohl. "A Compressed Sigma-Protocol Theory for Lattices". In: *Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO)*. 2021, 549–579.
- <span id="page-31-1"></span>[Bau+18] Carsten Baum, Jonathan Bootle, Andrea Cerulli, Rafael del Pino, Jens Groth, and Vadim Lyubashevsky. "Sub-linear Lattice-Based Zero-Knowledge Arguments for Arithmetic Circuits". In: *Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO)*. 2018, 669–699.
- <span id="page-31-5"></span>[BCS21] Jonathan Bootle, Alessandro Chiesa, and Katerina Sotiraki. "Sumcheck Arguments and Their Applications". In: Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO). 2021, 742–773.
- <span id="page-31-6"></span>[BCS23] Jonathan Bootle, Alessandro Chiesa, and Katerina Sotiraki. "Lattice-Based Succinct Arguments for NP with Polylogarithmic-Time Verification". In: *Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO)*. 2023, pp. 227–251.
- <span id="page-31-7"></span>[BFS20] Benedikt Bunz, Ben Fisch, and Alan Szepieniec. "Transparent SNARKs from DARK Compilers". In: Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT). 2020, 677–706.
- <span id="page-31-2"></span>[BMV08] Emmanuel Bresson, Jean Monnerat, and Damien Vergnaud. "Separation Results on the "One-More" Computational Problems". In: *Topics in Cryptology* —*CT-RSA*. 2008, pp. 71–87.
- <span id="page-31-0"></span>[Boo+16] Jonathan Bootle, Andrea Cerulli, Pyrros Chaidos, Jens Groth, and Christophe Petit. "Efficient zero-knowledge arguments for arithmetic circuits in the discrete log setting". In: Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT). 2016, pp. 327–357.
- <span id="page-31-3"></span>[Boo+20] Jonathan Bootle, Vadim Lyubashevsky, Ngoc Khanh Nguyen, and Gregor Seiler. "A Non-PCP Approach to Succinct Quantum-Safe Zero-Knowledge". In: *Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO)*. 2020, 441–469.

{32}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-32-11"></span>[BP15] Nir Bitansky and Omer Paneth. "ZAPs and Non-Interactive Witness Indistinguishability from Indistinguishability Obfuscation". In: Theory of Cryptography (TCC). 2015, pp. 401–427.
- <span id="page-32-5"></span>[BS+18] Eli Ben-Sasson, Iddo Bentov, Yinon Horesh, and Michael Riabzev. Scalable, transparent, and post-quantum secure computational integrity. Tech. rep. Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2018.
- <span id="page-32-3"></span>[BS23] Ward Beullens and Gregor Seiler. "LaBRADOR: Compact Proofs for R1CS from Module-SIS". In: Annual International Cryptology Conference. 2023, 518–548.
- <span id="page-32-6"></span>[CJJ21] Arka Rai Choudhuri, Abhihsek Jain, and Zhengzhong Jin. "SNARGs for P from LWE". In: Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS). 2021, pp. 68–79.
- <span id="page-32-12"></span>[CW81] J. Lawrence Carter and Mark N. Wegman. "New Hash Functions and Their Use in Authentication and Set Equality". In: Journal of Computer and System Sciences (1981), pp. 265–279.
- <span id="page-32-9"></span>[DN00] C. Dwork and M. Naor. "Zaps and their applications". In: Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS). 2000, p. 283.
- <span id="page-32-8"></span>[FLS99] Uriel Feige, Dror Lapidot, and Adi Shamir. "Multiple Non-Interactive Zero Knowledge Proofs Under General Assumptions". In: SIAM Journal on Computing (1999). Preliminary version in FOCS'90.
- <span id="page-32-2"></span>[Ger+00] Yael Gertner, Sampath Kannan, Tal Malkin, Omer Reingold, and Mahesh Viswanathan. "The Relationship between Public Key Encryption and Oblivious Transfer". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 2000.
- <span id="page-32-0"></span>[GKR08] Shafi Goldwasser, Yael Tauman Kalai, and Guy N. Rothblum. "Delegating computation: interactive proofs for muggles". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 2008, 113–122.
- <span id="page-32-14"></span>[GL89] Oded Goldreich and Leonid A. Levin. "A Hard-Core Predicate for all One-Way Functions". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 1989, pp. 25– 32.
- <span id="page-32-7"></span>[GMW86] Oded Goldreich, Silvio Micali, and Avi Wigderson. "Proofs that Yield Nothing But their Validity and a Methodology of Cryptographic Protocol Design (Extended Abstract)". In: Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS). 1986, pp. 174–187.
- <span id="page-32-1"></span>[GMW91] Oded Goldreich, Silvio Micali, and Avi Wigderson. "Proofs that yield nothing but their validity or all languages in NP have zero-knowledge proof systems". In: Journal of the ACM 38.3 (1991), pp. 690–728.
- <span id="page-32-13"></span>[Gol01] Oded Goldreich. Foundations of Cryptography: Basic Tools. Cambridge University Press, 2001.
- <span id="page-32-10"></span>[GOS06] Jens Groth, Rafail Ostrovsky, and Amit Sahai. "Perfect non-interactive zero knowledge for NP". In: Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT). 2006, 339–358.
- <span id="page-32-4"></span>[Gro16] Jens Groth. "On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments". In: Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT). 2016, pp. 305–326.

{33}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-33-15"></span>[GVW01] Oded Goldreich, Salil Vadhan, and Avi Wigderson. "On Interactive Proofs with a Laconic Prover". In: Automata, Languages and Programming, 24th International Colloquium (ICALP). 2001, pp. 334–345.
- <span id="page-33-9"></span>[GW11] Craig Gentry and Daniel Wichs. "Separating Succinct Non-Interactive Arguments From All Falsifiable Assumptions". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 2011, pp. 99–108.
- <span id="page-33-3"></span>[HN24] Shuichi Hirahara and Mikito Nanashima. "One-Way Functions and Zero Knowledge". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 2024, 1731–1738.
- <span id="page-33-14"></span>[HNY22] Iftach Haitner, Daniel Nukrai, and Eylon Yogev. "Lower Bound on SNARGs in the Random Oracle Model". In: Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO). 2022, pp. 97–127.
- <span id="page-33-5"></span>[HRS09] Iftach Haitner, Alon Rosen, and Ronen Shaltiel. "On the (Im)Possibility of Arthur-Merlin Witness Hiding Protocols". In: Theory of Cryptography (TCC). 2009, pp. 220– 237.
- <span id="page-33-6"></span>[IL89] Russell Impagliazzo and Michael Luby. "One-way Functions are Essential for Complexity Based Cryptography". In: Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS). 1989, pp. 230–235.
- <span id="page-33-4"></span>[IR89] Russell Impagliazzo and Steven Rudich. "Limits on the provable consequences of oneway permutations". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 1989, pp. 44–61.
- <span id="page-33-0"></span>[Kil92] Joe Kilian. "A Note on Efficient Zero-Knowledge Proofs and Arguments". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 1992, pp. 723–732.
- <span id="page-33-1"></span>[KNY18] Ilan Komargodski, Moni Naor, and Eylon Yogev. "Collision Resistant Hashing for Paranoids: Dealing with Multiple Collisions". In: Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT). 2018, pp. 162– 194.
- <span id="page-33-13"></span>[KPY19] Yael Kalai, Omer Paneth, and Lisa Yang. "How to Delegate Computations Publicly". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 2019, pp. 1115–1124.
- <span id="page-33-7"></span>[LMP24] Yanyi Liu, Noam Mazor, and Rafael Pass. "A Note on Zero-Knowledge for NP and One-Way Functions". Manuscript. 2024.
- <span id="page-33-11"></span>[Mic00] Silvio Micali. "Computationally Sound Proofs." In: SIAM Journal on Computing 30.4 (2000), pp. 1253–1298.
- <span id="page-33-10"></span>[Nao03] Moni Naor. "On Cryptographic Assumptions and Challenges". In: Annual International Cryptology Conference (CRYPTO). 2003.
- <span id="page-33-2"></span>[OW93] Rafail Ostrovsky and Avi Wigderson. "One-Way Functions are Essential for Non-Trivial Zero-Knowledge". In: The Israel Symposium on Theory of Computing Systems. 1993, pp. 3–17.
- <span id="page-33-8"></span>[RV24] Ron D. Rothblum and Prashant Nalini Vasudevan. "Collision Resistance from Multicollision Resistance". In: Journal of Cryptology 37.2 (2024), p. 14.
- <span id="page-33-12"></span>[Set20] Srinath Setty. "Spartan: Efficient and General-Purpose zkSNARKs Without Trusted Setup". In: Annual International Cryptology Conference. 2020, 704–737.

{34}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-34-1"></span>[Sim98] Daniel Simon. "Finding Collisions on a One-Way Street: Can Secure Hash Functions Be Based on General Assumptions?" In: Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT). 1998, pp. 334–345.
- <span id="page-34-0"></span>[SW14] Amit Sahai and Brent Waters. "How to use indistinguishability obfuscation: deniable encryption, and more". In: Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC). 2014, 475–484.
- <span id="page-34-2"></span>[Yao82] Andrew C. Yao. "Theory and Applications of Trapdoor Functions". In: Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS). 1982, pp. 80–91.