# Indistinguishability Obfuscation Without Maps: Attacks and Fixes for Noisy Linear FE

Shweta Agrawal<sup>1</sup> and Alice Pellet-Mary<sup>2</sup>

1 IIT Madras, India shweta.a@gmail.com 2 imec-COSIC, KU Leuven, Belgium alice.pelletmary@kuleuven.be

Abstract. Candidates of Indistinguishability Obfuscation (iO) can be categorized as "direct" or "bootstrapping based". Direct constructions rely on high degree multilinear maps [\[35,](#page-34-0) [36\]](#page-34-1) and provide heuristic guarantees, while bootstrapping based constructions [\[47,](#page-34-2) [44,](#page-34-3) [46,](#page-34-4) [10,](#page-33-0) [2,](#page-32-0) [40\]](#page-34-5) rely, in the best case, on bilinear maps as well as new variants of the Learning With Errors (LWE) assumption and pseudorandom generators. Recent times have seen exciting progress in the construction of indistinguishability obfuscation (iO) from bilinear maps (along with other assumptions) [\[46,](#page-34-4) [10,](#page-33-0) [40,](#page-34-5) [2\]](#page-32-0).

As a notable exception, a recent work by Agrawal [\[2\]](#page-32-0) provided a construction for iO without using any maps. This work identified a new primitive, called Noisy Linear Functional Encryption (NLinFE) that provably suffices for iO and gave a direct construction of NLinFE from new assumptions on lattices. While a preliminary cryptanalysis for the new assumptions was provided in the original work, the author admitted the necessity of performing significantly more cryptanalysis before faith could be placed in the security of the scheme. Moreover, the author did not suggest concrete parameters for the construction.

In this work, we fill this gap by undertaking the task of thorough cryptanalytic study of NLinFE. We design two attacks that let the adversary completely break the security of the scheme. To achieve this, we develop new cryptanalytic techniques which (we hope) will inform future designs of the primitive of NLinFE.

From the knowledge gained by our cryptanalytic study, we suggest modifications to the scheme. We provide a new scheme which overcomes the vulnerabilities identified before. We also provide a thorough analysis of all the security aspects of this scheme and argue why plausible attacks do not work. We additionally provide concrete parameters with which the scheme may be instantiated. We believe the security of NLinFE stands on significantly firmer footing as a result of this work.

# 1 Introduction

Indistinguishability Obfuscation (iO) is one of the most sought-after primitives in modern cryptography. While introduced in a work by Barak et al. in 2001 [\[14\]](#page-33-1), the first candidate construction for this primitive was only provided in 2013 [\[36\]](#page-34-1). In this breakthrough work, the authors not only gave the first candidate for iO but also demonstrated its power by using it to construct the first full fledged functional encryption (FE) scheme. This work led to a deluge of ever more powerful applications of iO, ranging from classic to fantastic [\[42,](#page-34-6) [54,](#page-34-7) [23,](#page-33-2) [22,](#page-33-3) [17,](#page-33-4) [43,](#page-34-8) [45,](#page-34-9) [19\]](#page-33-5). Few years later, iO is widely acknowledged to be (almost) "crypto complete". We refer the reader to [\[44\]](#page-34-3) for a detailed discussion.

However, constructions of iO have been far from perfect. The so called "first generation" constructions relied on the existence of multilinear maps of polynomial degree [\[36,](#page-34-1) [37,](#page-34-10) [57,](#page-34-11) [12\]](#page-33-6), "second generation" relied on multilinear maps of constant degree [\[47,](#page-34-2) [44,](#page-34-3) [46\]](#page-34-4), and in a sequence of exciting recent works, "third generation" candidates rely only on multilinear maps of degree 2 (i.e. bilinear maps) along with assumptions on the complexity of certain special types of pseudorandom generators and new variants of the Learning With Errors (LWE) assumption [\[10,](#page-33-0) [40,](#page-34-5) [2\]](#page-32-0). It is well known that degree 2 maps can be instantiated on elliptic curve groups, so this brings us closer to realizing iO from believable assumptions than ever before.

iO Without Maps: All the above constructions rely on multilinear maps of degree ≥ 2. While there exist candidates for multilinear maps of degree ≥ 3, they have been subject to many attacks [\[27,](#page-33-7) [31,](#page-33-8) [39,](#page-34-12) [34,](#page-34-13) [51,](#page-34-14) [32,](#page-33-9) [24,](#page-33-10) [11,](#page-33-11) [53,](#page-34-15) [28,](#page-33-12) [25,](#page-33-13) [26\]](#page-33-14) and their security is poorly understood. On the other hand, bilinear maps are well understood and considered safe to use (at least in the pre-quantum world). Recent works [\[10,](#page-33-0) [2,](#page-32-0) [40\]](#page-34-5) have come tantalizingly close to basing iO on bilinear maps while minimizing the additional assumptions required. There is hope that these efforts will converge to a candidate whose security we may trust.

While realizing iO from degree 2 maps (along with other plausible assumptions) is a very worthy goal, it is nevertheless only one approach to take. Any cryptographic primitive, especially one of such central importance, deserves to be studied from different perspectives and based on diverse mathematical assumptions. Two works (that we are aware of) attempt to construct iO without using any maps – one by Gentry, Jutla and Keane [\[38\]](#page-34-16) and another by Agrawal [\[2\]](#page-32-0). The work by Gentry et al. [\[38\]](#page-34-16) constructs obfuscation schemes for matrix branching programs that are purely algebraic and employ matrix groups and tensor algebra over a finite field. They prove security of their construction against a restricted class of attacks. On the other hand, the work of Agrawal formalizes a "minimal" (as per current knowledge) primitive called "Noisy Linear Functional Encryption" (NLinFE) which is showed to imply iO and provides a direct construction for this using new assumptions on NTRU lattices, which are quite different from assumptions used so far for building multilinear maps or iO.

Comparison with Other Approaches. The instantiation of iO via Agrawal's direct construction of NLinFE (henceforth referred to simply as NLinFE) has both advantages and disadvantages compared to other cutting-edge constructions. For instance, [\[38\]](#page-34-16) has the advantage that it constructs full fledged iO directly, while NLinFE has the advantage that untested assumptions are used to construct a much simpler primitive. Next, consider constructions that use bilinear maps [\[10,](#page-33-0) [2,](#page-32-0) [40\]](#page-34-5). On the positive side, NLinFE has potential to be quantum secure, which evidently is not a property that bilinear map based constructions can hope to achieve. Additionally, the NLinFE supports outputs of super-polynomial size, while bilinear map based constructions can support only polynomially sized outputs. In particular, this leads to the latter constructions relying on a complicated and inefficient (albeit cool) "security amplification" step in order to be useful for iO. Moreover, there is a qualitative advantage to Agrawal's direct construction: while bilinear map based constructions use clever methods to compute a PRG output exactly, the direct construction of NLinFE relaxes correctness and settles for computing the PRG output only approximately – this allows for the usage of encodings that are not powerful enough for exact computation.

On the other hand, Agrawal's encodings are new, while assumptions over bilinear maps have stood the test of time (in the pre-quantum world). While bilinear map based constructions must also make new, non-standard assumptions, these constructions come with a clean proof from the non-standard assumptions. Meanwhile, Agrawal's NLinFE came with a proof in a very weak security game that only permits the adversary to request a single ciphertext, and that too from a non-standard assumption. Moreover, the author did not suggest concrete parameters for the construction, and admitted the necessity of substantially more cryptanalysis before faith could be placed in these new assumptions.

Our Results. In this work, we undertake the task of thorough cryptanalytic study of Agrawal's NLinFE scheme. We design two attacks that let the adversary completely break the security of the scheme. To achieve this, we develop new cryptanalytic techniques which (we hope) will inform future designs of the primitive of NLinFE.

As mentioned above, Agrawal proved the security of her NLinFE in a weak security game where the attacker is only permitted to request a single ciphertext. Our first attack shows that this is not a co-incidence: an attacker given access to many ciphertexts can manipulate them to recover a (nonlinear) equation in secret terms, which, with some effort, can be solved to recover the secret elements. We emphasize that this attack is very different in nature from the annihilation attacks [\[51\]](#page-34-14) studied in the context of breaking other constructions of iO. We refer to this attack as the multiple ciphertext attack. To demonstrate our attack, we formalize an assumption implicitly made by [\[2\]](#page-32-0), and design an attack that breaks this assumption – this in turn implies an attack on the scheme. We implement this attack and provide the code at [https://apelletm.github.io/code/NLinFE\\_](https://apelletm.github.io/code/NLinFE_multiciphertexts_attack.sage) [multiciphertexts\\_attack.sage](https://apelletm.github.io/code/NLinFE_multiciphertexts_attack.sage).

Our second attack, which we call the rank attack exploits a seemingly harmless property of the output of decryption in NLinFE. Recall that the primitive of NLinFE enables an encryptor to compute a ciphertext CT(z), a key generator to compute a secret key SK(v) and the decryptor, given CT(z) and SK(v), to recover hz, vi + Nse, where Nse must satisfy some weak pseudorandomness properties.

A detail that is important here is that for NLinFE to be useful for iO, the term Nse above must be a linear combination of noise terms, each multiplied with a different (public) modulus. In more detail, the noise term Nse output by NLinFE has the structure P i piµ<sup>i</sup> where p<sup>i</sup> for i ∈ [0, D − 2] are a sequence of increasing moduli and µ<sup>i</sup> are unstructured noise terms. Moreover, for decryption to succeed, these moduli must be public.

The NLinFE construction takes great care to ensure that the noise terms computed via NLinFE are high degree polynomials in values that are spread out over the entire ring, and argues (convincingly, in our opinion) that these may not be exploited easily. However, while some of the µ<sup>i</sup> in the above equation are indeed "strong" and difficult to exploit, we observe that some of them are not. Moreover, since the moduli p<sup>i</sup> are public, the µ<sup>i</sup> can be "separated" into different "levels" according to the factor p<sup>i</sup> . Hence, it is necessary that the noise at each "level" be "strong", but NLinFE fails to enforce this. Therefore, while there exist strong terms in some levels, the existence of a weak noise term in even one other level enables us to isolate them and use them to construct a matrix, whose rank reveals whether the message bit is 0 or 1.

From the knowledge gained by our cryptanalytic study, we suggest fixes to the scheme. The first attack can be overcome by disabling meaningful manipulation between different encodings. We achieve this by making the encodings non-commutative. The second attack can be overcome by ensuring that the noise terms for all levels are equally strong. We then provide a new scheme which overcomes the vulnerabilities described above. We also provide a thorough analysis of all the security aspects of this scheme and argue why plausible attacks do not work. We additionally provide concrete parameters with which the scheme may be instantiated.

Comparison with other attacks on iO. While Agrawal's NLinFE construction is quite different from previous iO constructions needing fresh cryptanalysis, there are still some high-level similarities

between the rank attack we propose and previous attacks on candidate obfuscators [\[27,](#page-33-7) [32,](#page-33-9) [24,](#page-33-10) [25\]](#page-33-13). In more detail, these attacks also combine public elements in a clever way to obtain a matrix, and computing the eigenvalues or the rank of this matrix then enables an attacker to break the scheme. We note however that while the main idea of the attack is the same (we compute a matrix and its rank leaks some secret information), the way we obtain the matrix is completely different from [\[32,](#page-33-9) [24,](#page-33-10) [25\]](#page-33-13).

### 1.1 Our Techniques

We proceed to describe our techniques. We begin by defining the primitive of noisy linear functional encryption.

Noisy Linear Functional Encryption. Noisy linear functional encryption (NLinFE) is a generalization of linear functional encryption (LinFE) [\[1,](#page-32-1) [3\]](#page-32-2). Recall that in linear FE, the encryptor provides a CT<sup>z</sup> which encodes vector z ∈ R<sup>n</sup>, the key generator provides a secret key SK<sup>v</sup> which encodes vector v ∈ R<sup>n</sup> and the decryptor combines them to recover hz, vi. NLinFE is similar to linear FE, except that the function value is recovered only up to some bounded additive noise term, and indistinguishability holds even if the challenge messages evaluated on any function key are only "approximately" and not exactly equal. The functionality of NLinFE is as follows: given a ciphertext CT<sup>z</sup> and a secret key SKv, the decryptor recovers hz, vi + noisez,<sup>v</sup> where noisez,<sup>v</sup> is specific to the message and function being evaluated.

It is well known that functional encryption (FE) for the function class NC<sup>1</sup> which achieves sublinear[3](#page-3-0) ciphertext is sufficient to imply iO [\[9,](#page-32-3) [20\]](#page-33-15). Agrawal [\[2\]](#page-32-0) additionally showed the following "bootstrapping" theorem.

Theorem 1.1 ([\[2\]](#page-32-0)). (Informal) There exists an FE scheme for the circuit class NC<sup>1</sup> with sublinear ciphertext size and satisfying indistinguishability based security, assuming:

- A noisy linear FE scheme NLinFE with sublinear ciphertext size satisfying indistinguishability based security and supporting superpolynomially large outputs.
- The Learning with Errors (LWE) Assumption.
- A pseudorandom generator (PRG) computable in NC0.

Since the last two assumptions are widely believed, it suffices to construct an NLinFE scheme to construct the all-powerful iO.

The NLinFE Construction. Agrawal provided a direct construction of NLinFE which supports superpolynomially large outputs, based on new assumptions that are based on the Ring Learning With Errors (RLWE) and NTRU assumptions (we refer the reader to Section [2](#page-7-0) for a refresher on RLWE and NTRU).

The starting point of Agrawal's NLinFE scheme is the LinFE scheme of [\[3\]](#page-32-2), which is based on LWE (or RLWE). NLinFE inherits the encodings and secret key structure of LinFE verbatim to compute inner products, and develops new techniques to compute the desired noise. Since the noise must be computed using a high degree polynomial for security [\[13,](#page-33-16) [48\]](#page-34-17), the work of [\[2\]](#page-32-0) designs new encodings that are amenable to multiplication as follows.

<span id="page-3-0"></span><sup>3</sup> Here "sublinear" refers to the property that the ciphertext size is sublinear in the number of keys requested by the FE adversary.

Let R = Z[x]/hx <sup>n</sup> + 1i and Rp<sup>1</sup> = R/(p<sup>1</sup> · R), Rp<sup>2</sup> = R/(p<sup>2</sup> · R) for some primes p<sup>1</sup> < p2. Then, for i ∈ {1, . . . , w}, sample f1<sup>i</sup> , f2<sup>i</sup> and g1, g<sup>2</sup> from a discrete Gaussian over ring R. Set

$$h_{1i} = \frac{f_{1i}}{g_1}, \quad h_{2j} = \frac{f_{2j}}{g_2} \in R_{p_2} \ \forall \ i, j \in [w]$$

Thus, [\[2\]](#page-32-0) assumes that the samples {h1<sup>i</sup> , h2j} for i, j ∈ [w] are indistinguishable from random, even though multiple samples share the same denominator.

Additionally, [\[2\]](#page-32-0) assumes that RLWE with small secrets remains secure if the noise terms live in some secret ideal. The motivation for choosing such structured secrets is that they can be multiplied with well chosen NTRU terms such as the {h1<sup>i</sup> , h2j} above, to cancel the denominator and obtain a small element which can be absorbed in noise.

In more detail, let <sup>D</sup>b(Λ) refer to a discrete Gaussian distribution over some lattice <sup>Λ</sup>. Then, for i ∈ [w], sample

$$\begin{split} e_{1i} &\leftarrow \widehat{\mathcal{D}}(\varLambda_2), \quad \text{where } \varLambda_2 \triangleq g_2 \cdot R. \ \text{Let} \quad e_{1i} = g_2 \cdot \xi_{1i} \in \text{small}, \\ e_{2i} &\leftarrow \widehat{\mathcal{D}}(\varLambda_1), \quad \text{where } \varLambda_1 \triangleq g_1 \cdot R. \ \text{Let} \quad e_{2i} = g_1 \cdot \xi_{2i} \in \text{small}, \end{split}$$

Here, small is used to collect terms whose norms may be bounded away from the modulus. Note that for i, j ∈ [w], it holds that:

$$h_{1i} \cdot e_{2j} = f_{1i} \cdot \xi_{2j}, \quad h_{2j} \cdot e_{1i} = f_{2j} \cdot \xi_{1i} \in \text{small}$$

Now, sample small secrets t1, t<sup>2</sup> and for i ∈ [w], compute

$$d_{1i} = h_{1i} \cdot t_1 + p_1 \cdot e_{1i} \in R_{p_2}$$
  
$$d_{2i} = h_{2i} \cdot t_2 + p_1 \cdot e_{2i} \in R_{p_2}$$

Then, note that the products d1<sup>i</sup> · d2<sup>j</sup> do not suffer from large cross terms for any i, j ∈ [w]. As discussed above, due to the fact that the error of one sample is chosen to "cancel out" the large denominator in the other sample, the product yields a well behaved RLWE sample whose label is a product of the original labels. In more detail,

$$d_{1i}\cdot d_{2j}=\left(h_{1i}\cdot h_{2j}\ \right)\cdot \left(t_2\ t_2\right)+p_1\cdot \text{noise}$$
 where noise 
$$=f_{1i}\cdot \xi_{2j}\cdot t_1+f_{2j}\cdot \xi_{1i}\cdot t_2+p_1\cdot g_1\cdot g_2\cdot \xi_{1i}\cdot \xi_{2j}\in \text{small}$$

The encoding d1<sup>i</sup> · d2<sup>j</sup> can be seen an an RLWE encoding under a public label – this enables the noise term p<sup>1</sup> · noise above to be added to the inner product computed by LinFE, yielding the desired NLinFE. The actual construction [\[2\]](#page-32-0) does several more tricks to ensure that the noise term is high entropy and spread across the ring – we refer the reader to Section [3](#page-10-0) for details.

Exploiting Correlated Noise across Multiple Ciphertexts. As discussed above, Agrawal [\[2\]](#page-32-0) provided a proof of security for the NLinFE construction (under a non-standard assumption) in a very weak security model where the adversary is only allowed to request a single ciphertext. In this work, we show that the construction is in fact insecure if the adversary has access to multiple ciphertexts. To do so, we first formally define a variant of the RLWE problem, which we call the RLWE problem with correlated noise. The distribution of the elements in this problem are similar to the one obtained by the encryption procedure of the NLinFE described above. We then show that this problem can be solved in polynomial time by an attacker, which in turn translates to an attack on Agrawal's NLinFE construction.

The key vulnerability exploited by the attack is that the noise terms across multiple ciphertexts are correlated. In more detail, we saw above that  $d_{1i} = h_{1i} \cdot t_1 + p_1 \cdot e_{1i}$  where  $e_{1i}$  lives in the ideal  $g_2 \cdot R$ . Now, consider the corresponding element in another ciphertext:  $d'_{1i} = h_{1i} \cdot t'_1 + p_1 \cdot e'_{1i}$  where  $e'_{1i}$  is also in the ideal  $g_2 \cdot R$ . The key observation we make is that the noise  $e_{1i}$  does not only annihilate the requisite large terms in the encodings of its own ciphertext namely  $\{d_{2i}\}$  – it also annihilates large terms in the encodings of other ciphertexts, namely  $\{d'_{2i}\}$ .

This allows us to perform mix and match attacks, despite the fact that each encoding is randomized with fresh randomness. Consider the large terms in the following two products:

$$\begin{aligned} d_{1i}d'_{2j} &= \left(h_{1i}h_{2j}\right) \cdot (t_1t'_2) + p_1 \cdot \text{small} \\ d_{2j}d'_{1i} &= \left(h_{2j}h_{1i}\right) \cdot (t_2t'_1) + p_1 \cdot \text{small} \end{aligned}$$

We see above that the labels  $h_{1i}h_{2j}$  can be computed in two different ways (but the secrets are different). In a symmetric manner, if we consider other indices i' and j' for the ciphertext elements above, we can obtain

$$d_{1i}d_{2j} = \left(h_{1i}h_{2j}\right) \cdot (t_1t_2) + p_1 \cdot \text{small}$$

$$d_{2j'}d_{1i'} = \left(h_{2j'}h_{1i'}\right) \cdot (t_2t_1) + p_1 \cdot \text{small}.$$

Now, the secret is the same but the labels are changing. By playing on these symmetries, we can combine the products above (and the symmetric ones) so that all large terms are canceled and we are left with only small terms.

Intrinsically, what happens here is that in an element  $d_{1i} = h_{1i} \cdot t_1 + p_1 \cdot e_{1i}$ , we can change the  $h_{1i}$  and  $t_1$  elements independently (the secret  $t_1$  changes with the ciphertext and the label  $h_{1i}$  changes with the index of the element in the ciphertext). By varying these two elements independently, one can obtain  $2 \times 2$  encodings (for 2 different choices of  $h_{1i}$  and 2 different choices of  $t_1$ ), and consider the  $2 \times 2$  matrix associated. More formally, let us write

$$d_{1i} = h_{1i} \cdot t_1 + p_1 \cdot e_{1i}, \qquad d_{1i'} = h_{1i'} \cdot t_1 + p_1 \cdot e_{1i'}$$
  
$$d'_{1i} = h_{1i} \cdot t'_1 + p_1 \cdot e'_{1i}, \qquad d'_{1i'} = h_{1i'} \cdot t'_1 + p_1 \cdot e'_{1i'}$$

these encodings. We consider the matrix

$$\begin{pmatrix} d_{1i} \ d_{1i'} \\ d'_{1i} \ d'_{1i'} \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix} t_1 \\ t'_1 \end{pmatrix} \cdot \begin{pmatrix} h_{1i} \ h_{1i'} \end{pmatrix} + p_1 \cdot \begin{pmatrix} e_{1i} \ e_{1i'} \\ e'_{1i} \ e'_{1i'} \end{pmatrix}.$$

This matrix is the sum of a matrix of rank 1 with large coefficients plus a full rank matrix with small coefficients that are multiples of  $g_2$ . These properties ensure that its determinant will be of the form  $g_2/g_1 \cdot \text{small}$ . By doing the same thing with the encodings  $d_{2i}$ , we can also create an element of the form  $g_1/g_2 \cdot \text{small}$ . By multiplying these two elements, we finally obtain a combination of the encodings which is small. We can then distinguish whether the encodings are random or are RLWE with correlated noise elements. For more details, please see Section 4.

Unravelling the structure of the Noise. Our second attack, the so called "rank attack" exploits the fact that for the NLinFE noise to be useful for bootstrapping, it needs to be linear combination

of noise terms, each of which is multiple of a fixed and public modulus p<sup>i</sup> , for i ∈ [0, D − 2]. As discussed above, the noise terms that are multiples of distinct p<sup>i</sup> may be separated from each other and attacked individually. In these piece-wise noise terms, we first isolate the noise term that encodes the message, which is 0 or m (say). Thus, our isolated noise term is of the form Nse or Nse + m depending on the challenge. Here, Nse is a complicated high degree multivariate polynomial, but we will find a way to learn the challenge bit without solving high degree polynomial equations.

To do so, we examine the noise term more carefully. As mentioned above, this term is a high degree, multivariate polynomial which looks difficult to analyze. However, we observe that each variable in this polynomial may be categorized into one of three "colours" – blue if it is fixed across all ciphertexts and secret keys, red if it is dependent only on the secret key and black if it is dependent only on the ciphertext. Next, we observe that if the challenge is 0, then the above polynomial may be expressed as a sum of inner products, where in every inner product one vector depends only on the secret key and the other one depends only on the cipher text. Concatenating all these vectors, one obtains a term ha, bi, where a depends only on the secret key and b depends only on the ciphertext (and they are both secret). The dimension of a and b is the sum of the dimension of all the vectors involved in the sum above, let us denote this dimension by N.

Assume that we can make N + 1 requests for secret keys and ciphertexts. Now, in NLinFE, the message m itself depends on both the secret key and the ciphertext[4](#page-6-0) – we denote by mij the message corresponding to the i-th secret key and the j-th ciphertext, and note that mij is known to the NLinFE adversary. We write ci,j = ha<sup>i</sup> , b<sup>j</sup> i + (0 or mij ) the noise term obtained when computing decryption with the i-th secret key and the j-th ciphertext. Define C and M the N × N matrices (ci,j )i,j and (mij )i,j respectively. Similarly, let A be the matrix whose rows are the a<sup>i</sup> and B be the matrix whose columns are the b<sup>j</sup> .

Then, depending on the challenge, we claim that C or C − M is of rank at most N. To see this, note that we have C = A · B + (0 or M), where A has dimension (N + 1) × N and B has dimension N × (N + 1), so that A · B has rank at most N. On the other hand, the other matrix is of the form A · B ± M, which has full rank with good probability. We conclude the attack by arguing that the adversary is indeed allowed to make N + 1 requests for secret keys and ciphertexts. Thus, by computing the rank of C and C − M, she can learn the challenge bit. For details, please see Section [5.](#page-15-0)

Fixing the Construction. In light of the attacks described above, we propose a variant of Agrawal's NLinFE construction [\[2\]](#page-32-0), designed to resist these attacks.

Recall that for the multi-ciphertexts attack, we used the commutativity of the elements to ensure that, when multiplying elements in a certain way, the labels and secrets were the same. Hence, we prevent this attack by replacing the product of scalars h1<sup>i</sup> · t<sup>1</sup> in the encodings by an inner product hh1<sup>i</sup> , t1i, where the elements h1<sup>i</sup> and t<sup>1</sup> have been replaced by vectors of dimension κ (the security parameter). This fix does not completely prevent the multi-ciphertexts attack, but the generalization of this attack to this non commutative setting requires a very large modulus, and is therefore not applicable to the range of parameters required for correctness.

To fix the rank attack, we first observe that we do not need to construct directly an NLinFE scheme with structured noise. Indeed, assume first that we have an NLinFE scheme with arbitrary noise, and we would like to have a noise term which is a multiple of p0. Then, when we want to encode a vector z, we simply encode z/p<sup>0</sup> with our NLinFE with arbitrary noise. By decrypting

<span id="page-6-0"></span><sup>4</sup> This is created by the bootstrapping step. Intuitively mij is itself a noise term, which depends on both SK and CT, and we seek to "flood" this term using NLinFE. Please see [\[2\]](#page-32-0) for more details.

the message, one would then recover  $1/p_0 \cdot \langle \mathbf{z}, \mathbf{v} \rangle + \text{noise}$ , and by multiplying this by  $p_0$ , we obtain  $\langle \mathbf{z}, \mathbf{v} \rangle + p_0 \cdot \text{noise}$ , with the desired noise shape. More generally, if we want a noise term which is a sum of multiples of  $p_i$ 's, we could use an additive secret sharing of  $\mathbf{z}$ , i.e., compute random vectors  $\mathbf{z}_i$  such that  $\sum_i \mathbf{z}_i = \mathbf{z}$ , and then encode  $\mathbf{z}_i/p_i$  with the NLinFE scheme with arbitrary noise. By decrypting every ciphertexts, one could then recover  $1/p_i \cdot \langle \mathbf{z}_i, \mathbf{v} \rangle + \text{noise}$  for all i's, and by scaling and summing them, one will have a noise term of the desired shape.

Once we have made this observation that an NLinFE scheme with arbitrary noise is sufficient for our purpose, we can prevent the rank attack by removing the moduli  $p_i$  from Agrawal's construction. This means that the noise term we obtain at the end cannot be split anymore into smaller noise terms by looking at the "levels" created by the moduli. We now only have one big noise term, which contains noise terms of high degree and so seems hard to exploit. For technical reasons, we in fact have to keep one modulus, but the general intuition is the same as the one given here. For more details, please see Section 6.

### <span id="page-7-0"></span>2 Preliminaries

Notations. We say a function f(n) is negligible if it is  $O(n^{-c})$  for all c > 0, and we use  $\operatorname{negl}(n)$  to denote a negligible function of n. We say f(n) is polynomial if it is  $O(n^c)$  for some c > 0, and we use  $\operatorname{poly}(n)$  to denote a polynomial function of n. We say an event occurs with overwhelming probability if its probability is  $1 - \operatorname{negl}(n)$ . The function  $\log x$  is the base 2 logarithm of x.

Throughout the writeup, we use the term noise as a place-holder for RLWE noise when its precise value is not important. Similarly we use the term small as a place holder that implies the norm of the relevant element can be bounded well below the modulus size, modulus/5, say. We use it for intuition when the precise bound on the norm is not important.

Throughout the article, we let R be the ring  $R = \mathbb{Z}[X]/(X^n + 1)$  for n a power of two. This ring is seen as a lattice in  $\mathbb{Z}^n$  via the coefficient embedding, mapping a polynomial  $r = \sum_{i=0}^{n-1} r_i X^i \in R$  to the vector  $(r_0, \dots, r_{n-1}) \in \mathbb{Z}^n$ .

#### 2.1 Noisy Linear Functional Encryption (NLinFE)

Let R be the ring of polynomials  $\mathbb{Z}[x]/f(x)$  where  $f(x) = x^n + 1$  for n a power of 2. We let  $R_{p_i} = R/p_i R$  for some prime number  $p_i \in \mathbb{Z}$ , with  $i \in [0, d]$  for some constant d. Let  $B_1, B_2 \in \mathbb{R}^+$  be bounding values, where  $\frac{B_2}{B_1} = \operatorname{superpoly}(\kappa)$ . Let N > 0 be an integer (N) will be the maximal number of key queries that an attacker is allowed to make). We define the symmetric key variant below.

**Definition 2.1.** A symmetric key  $(B_1, B_2, N)$ -noisy linear functional encryption scheme FE is a tuple FE = (FE.Setup, FE.Keygen, FE.Enc, FE.Dec) of four probabilistic polynomial-time algorithms with the following specifications:

- FE.Setup $(1^{\kappa}, R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell})$  takes as input the security parameter  $\kappa$  and the space of messages and function vectors  $R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell}$  and outputs the master secret key MSK.
- FE.Keygen(MSK,  $\mathbf{v}$ ) takes as input the master secret key MSK and a vector  $\mathbf{v} \in R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell}$  and outputs the secret key SK<sub>v</sub>.
- FE.Enc(MSK,  $\mathbf{z}$ ) takes as input the master secret key MSK and a message  $\mathbf{z} \in R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell}$  and outputs the ciphertext  $\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}}$ .

- FE.Dec( $\mathsf{SK}_{\mathbf{v}}, \mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}}$ ) takes as input the secret key of a user  $\mathsf{SK}_{\mathbf{v}}$  and the ciphertext  $\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}}$ , and outputs  $y \in R_{p_{d-1}} \cup \{\bot\}$ .

**Definition 2.2** (Approximate Correctness). A noisy linear functional encryption scheme FE is correct if for all  $\mathbf{v}, \mathbf{z} \in R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell}$ ,

$$\Pr\left[\frac{\mathsf{MSK} \leftarrow \mathsf{FE.Setup}(1^\kappa);}{\mathsf{FE.Dec}\Big(\mathsf{FE.Keygen}(\mathsf{MSK}, \mathbf{v}), \mathsf{FE.Enc}(\mathsf{MSK}, \mathbf{z})\Big) = \langle \mathbf{v}, \mathbf{z} \rangle + \mathsf{noise}_{\mathsf{fld}}\right] = 1 - \operatorname{negl}(\kappa)$$

where  $noise_{fld} \in R$  with  $\|noise_{fld}\| \leq B_2$  and the probability is taken over the coins of FE.Setup, FE.Keygen, and FE.Enc.

Security. Next, we define the notion of Noisy-IND security and admissible adversary.

**Definition 2.3** (Noisy-IND Security Game). We define the security game between the challenger and adversary as follows:

- 1. Key and Challenge Generation: Challenger samples  $MSK \leftarrow FE.Setup(1^{\kappa})$  and a random bit b (and keeps them secret).
- 2. Secret Key Queries: Adv may adaptively request keys for any functions  $\mathbf{v}_i \in R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell}$ . In response, Adv is given the corresponding keys  $\mathsf{SK}(\mathbf{v}_i)$ .
- 3. Ciphertext queries: Adv may adaptively output message pairs  $(\mathbf{z}_0^i, \mathbf{z}_1^i) \in R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell} \times R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell}$  to the challenger. The challenger returns the ciphertext  $\mathsf{CT}(\mathbf{z}_b^i)$  for every queried pair. The secret key queries and ciphertext queries can be entangled and adaptive.
- 4. **Guess.** Adv outputs a bit b', and succeeds if b' = b.

The advantage of Adv is the absolute value of the difference between the adversary's success probability and 1/2.

**Definition 2.4 (Admissible Adversary).** We say an adversary is admissible if it makes at most N key requests and if for any pair of challenge messages  $\mathbf{z}_0, \mathbf{z}_1 \in R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell}$  and any queried key  $\mathbf{v}_i \in R_{p_{d-1}}^{\ell}$ , it holds that  $|\langle \mathbf{v}_i, \mathbf{z}_0 - \mathbf{z}_1 \rangle| \leq B_1$  (recall that N and  $B_1$  are parameters of the scheme).

Structure of Noise. The bootstrapping step in [2] requires that

$$|\langle \mathbf{v}_i, \mathbf{z}_0 - \mathbf{z}_1 \rangle| = \sum_{i=0}^{d-2} p_i \cdot \mathsf{noise}_{\mathsf{ch}, \mathsf{i}}$$

for some noise terms  $\mathsf{noise}_{\mathsf{ch},\mathsf{i}}$ . Hence the flooding noise  $\mathsf{noise}_{\mathsf{fld}}$  that is added by the NLinFE must also be structured as  $\sum_{i=0}^{d-2} p_i \cdot \mathsf{noise}_{\mathsf{fld},\mathsf{i}}$ .

**Definition 2.5** (Noisy-IND security).  $A(B_1, B_2, N)$ -noisy linear FE scheme NLinFE is Noisy-IND secure if for all admissible probabilistic polynomial-time adversaries Adv, the advantage of Adv in the Noisy-IND security game is negligible in the security parameter  $\kappa$ .

The works of [9, 20, 18, 2] show that as long as the size of the ciphertext is sublinear in N, a  $(B_1, B_2, N)$  – NLinFE scheme implies indistinguishability obfuscation.

#### <span id="page-9-0"></span>2.2 Sampling and Trapdoors

Ajtai [6] showed how to sample a random lattice along with a trapdoor that permits sampling short vectors from that lattice. Recent years have seen significant progress in refining and extending this result [56, 8, 50].

For  $r \in R$ , we use ||r|| to refer to the Euclidean norm of r's coefficient vector. Let q be a large prime satisfying  $q = 1 \mod 2n$  We will make use of the following algorithms from [50]:

- 1. TrapGen(n, m, q): The TrapGen algorithm takes as input the dimension of the ring n, a sufficiently large integer  $m = O(n \log q)$  and the modulus size q and outputs a vector  $\mathbf{w} \in R_q^m$  such that the distribution of  $\mathbf{w}$  is negligibly far from uniform, along with a "trapdoor"  $\mathbf{T}_{\mathbf{w}} \in R^{m \times m}$  for the lattice  $\Lambda_q^{\perp}(\mathbf{w}) = \{\mathbf{x} : \langle \mathbf{w}, \mathbf{x} \rangle = 0 \mod q\}$ .
- 2. SamplePre( $\mathbf{w}, \mathbf{T}_{\mathbf{w}}, a, \sigma$ ): The SamplePre algorithm takes as input a vector  $\mathbf{w} \in R_q^m$  along with a trapdoor  $\mathbf{T}_{\mathbf{w}}$  and a syndrome  $a \in R_q$  and a sufficiently large  $\sigma = O(\sqrt{n \log q})$  and outputs a vector  $\mathbf{e}$  from a distribution within negligible distance to  $\mathcal{D}_{\Lambda_q^a(\mathbf{w}), \sigma \cdot \omega(\sqrt{\log n})}$  where  $\Lambda_q^a(\mathbf{w}) = \{\mathbf{x} : \langle \mathbf{w}, \mathbf{x} \rangle = a \mod q \}$ .

### 2.3 Random matrices over $\mathbb{Z}_q$

<span id="page-9-1"></span>**Lemma 2.6.** Let q be a prime integer and **A** be sampled uniformly in  $(\mathbf{Z}/(q\mathbf{Z}))^{m \times m}$ . Then

$$\mathbf{P}\left(\det(\mathbf{A}) \in (\mathbf{Z}/(q\mathbf{Z}))^{\times}\right) = \prod_{i=1}^{m} \left(1 - \frac{1}{q^i}\right) \ge 1 - \frac{4\ln(2)}{q}.$$

**Proof.** The first equality is obtained by counting the number of invertible  $m \times m$  matrices in  $\mathbb{Z}/(q\mathbb{Z})$ . For the lower bound, we observe that  $1 - 1/q^i \ge 1/2$  for all  $1 \le i \le m$ . By concavity of the logarithm function, this implies that  $\log(1 - 1/q^i) \ge -2/q^i$  for all  $i \ge 1$  (the logarithm is taken in base 2). We then have

$$\log \prod_{i=1}^m \left(1 - \frac{1}{q^i}\right) = \sum_{i=1}^m \log \left(1 - \frac{1}{q^i}\right) \ge \sum_{i=1}^m \frac{-2}{q^i} \ge \frac{-2}{q} \cdot \frac{1}{1 - 1/q} \ge \frac{-4}{q}.$$

Taking the exponential we obtain that  $\mathbf{P}(\det(\mathbf{A}) \in (\mathbf{Z}/(q\mathbf{Z}))^{\times}) \ge 2^{-4/q} \ge 1 - \frac{4\ln(2)}{q}$  as desired.

<span id="page-9-2"></span>**Lemma 2.7 (Corollary 2.2 of [21]).** Let q be a prime integer and A be sampled uniformly in  $(\mathbf{Z}/(q\mathbf{Z}))^{m\times m}$ . For any  $x\in (\mathbf{Z}/(q\mathbf{Z}))^{\times}$ , we have

$$\mathbf{P}\left(\det(\mathbf{A}) = x \mid \det(A) \in (\mathbf{Z}/(q\mathbf{Z}))^{\times}\right) = \frac{1}{|(\mathbf{Z}/(q\mathbf{Z}))^{\times}|} = \frac{1}{q-1}.$$

In other words, det(A) is uniform in  $(\mathbf{Z}/(q\mathbf{Z}))^{\times}$  when conditioned on being invertible.

Corollary 2.2 of [21] even gives explicit values for the probability  $\mathbf{P}(\det(\mathbf{A}) = x)$  for any x. Here, we only use the fact that these values are the same whenever the gcd of x and q is constant (in our case, the gcd is always 1 because x is invertible).

# <span id="page-10-0"></span>Agrawal's Construction of Noisy Linear FE

We begin by recapping the construction of NLinFE by Agrawal [2]. The construction uses two prime moduli  $p_1$  and  $p_2$  with  $p_1 \ll p_2$ . The message and function vectors will be chosen from  $R_{p_1}$  while the public key and ciphertext are from  $R_{p_2}$ . The construction will make use of the fact that elements in  $R_{p_1}$  as well as elements sampled from a discrete Gaussian distribution denoted by  $\mathcal{D}$ , are small in  $R_{p_2}$ .

NLinFE.Setup( $1^{\kappa}, 1^{w}$ ): On input a security parameter  $\kappa$ , a parameter w denoting the length of the function and message vectors, do the following:

- 1. Sample prime moduli  $p_0 < p_1 < p_2$  and standard deviation  $\sigma$ , according to the parameter specification of [2]. We will write  $\mathcal{D}(\Lambda)$  the Gaussian distribution with parameter  $\sigma$  over a lattice  $\Lambda$ , and we will simplify  $\mathcal{D}(R)$  as  $\mathcal{D}$ .
- 2. Sample  $\mathbf{w} \leftarrow R_{p_2}^m$  with a trapdoor  $\mathbf{T}_{\mathbf{w}}$  using the algorithm TrapGen as defined in Section 2.2. 3. Sample  $\mathbf{E} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^{m \times w}$  and set  $\mathbf{a} = \mathbf{E}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{w} \in R_{p_2}^w$ .
- 4. For  $i \in \{1, ..., r\}$ ,  $\ell \in \{1, ..., k\}$ , sample  $f_{1i}^{\ell}, f_{2i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$  and  $g_{1}^{\ell}, g_{2}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$ . If  $g_{1}^{\ell}, g_{2}^{\ell}$  are not invertible over  $R_{p_2}$ , resample. Set

$$h_{1i}^{\ell} = \frac{f_{1i}^{\ell}}{g_{1}^{\ell}}, \quad h_{2i}^{\ell} = \frac{f_{2i}^{\ell}}{g_{2}^{\ell}} \in R_{p_{2}}$$

5. Sample short  $\mathbf{e}_{ij} \in \mathbb{R}^m$  using SamplePre (please see Section 2.2) such that

$$\langle \mathbf{w}, \, \mathbf{e}_{ij} \rangle = h_{ij}, \text{ where } h_{ij} \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} \sum_{\ell \in [k]} h_{1i}^{\ell} h_{2j}^{\ell} + p_0 \cdot \Delta_{ij} + p_1 \cdot \tilde{\Delta}_{ij}$$

Above  $\Delta_{ij}$ ,  $\tilde{\Delta}_{ij} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$  for  $1 \leq j \leq i \leq r$ .

Let 
$$\mathbf{E}^{\times} = (\mathbf{e}_{ij}) \in R^{m \times L}, \quad \mathbf{h}^{\times} = (h_{ij}) \in R_{p_2}^L$$

where  $L = |1 \le j \le i \le r|$ .

6. Sample a PRF seed, denoted as seed. Output

$$\mathsf{MSK} = \left( \ \mathbf{w}, \mathbf{T}_\mathbf{w}, \mathbf{a}, \mathbf{E}, \mathbf{E}^\times, \left\{ f_{1i}^\ell, f_{2i}^\ell \right\}_{i \in [r], \ell \in [k]}, \left\{ g_1^\ell, g_2^\ell \right\}_{\ell \in [k]}, \mathsf{seed} \ \right)$$

 $\mathsf{NLinFE}.\mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{MSK},\mathbf{z})$ : On input the master secret key  $\mathsf{MSK}$ , a message vector  $\mathbf{z} \in R_{n_1}^w$ , do:

1. Construct Message Encodings. Sample  $\nu \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^m$ ,  $\eta \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^w$  and  $t_1, t_2 \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$ . Set  $s = t_1 \cdot t_2$ . Compute:

$$\mathbf{c} = \mathbf{w} \cdot s + p_1 \cdot \boldsymbol{\nu} \in R^m_{p_2}, \quad \mathbf{b} = \mathbf{a} \cdot s + p_1 \cdot \boldsymbol{\eta} + \mathbf{z} \in R^w_{p_2}$$

- 2. Sample Structured Noise. To compute encodings of noise, do the following:
  - (a) Define lattices:

$$\Lambda_1^{\ell} \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} g_1^{\ell} \cdot R, \quad \Lambda_2^{\ell} \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} g_2^{\ell} \cdot R$$

(b) Sample noise terms from the above lattices as:

$$e_{1i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(\Lambda_2^{\ell}), \ \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(\Lambda_2^{\ell}), \quad e_{2i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(\Lambda_1^{\ell}), \ \tilde{e}_{2i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(\Lambda_1^{\ell}) \quad \forall i \in [r], \ell \in [k]$$

- 3. Compute Encodings of Noise.
  - (a) Let

$$d_{1i}^{\ell} = h_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot t_1 + p_1 \cdot \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell} + p_0 \cdot e_{1i}^{\ell} \in R_{p_2} \quad \forall i \in [r], \ell \in [k].$$

Here,  $p_1 \cdot \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell}$  behaves as noise and  $p_0 \cdot e_{1i}^{\ell}$  behaves as the message. Let  $\mathbf{d}_1^{\ell} = (d_{1i}^{\ell})$ .

(b) Similarly, let

$$d_{2i}^{\ell} = h_{2i}^{\ell} \cdot t_2 + p_1 \cdot \tilde{e}_{2i}^{\ell} + p_0 \cdot e_{2i}^{\ell} \in R_{p_2} \quad \forall i \in [r], \ell \in [k].$$

Here,  $p_1 \cdot \tilde{e}_{2i}^{\ell}$  behaves as noise and  $p_0 \cdot e_{2i}^{\ell}$  behaves as the message. Let  $\mathbf{d}_2^{\ell} = (d_{2i}^{\ell})$ .

4. Output Ciphertext. Output message encodings  $(\mathbf{c}, \mathbf{b})$  and noise encodings  $(\mathbf{d}_1^{\ell}, \mathbf{d}_2^{\ell})$  for  $\ell \in [k]$ .

 $\mathsf{NLinFE}.\mathsf{KeyGen}(\mathsf{MSK},\mathbf{v})$ : On input the master secret key  $\mathsf{MSK}$  and a vector  $\mathbf{v} \in R_{p_1}^w$ , do the following.

- 1. Sample a noise polynomial. Recall that  $L = |1 \le j \le i \le r|$ . Sample  $\mathbf{v}^{\times} \leftarrow R^L$ , with small coefficients compared to  $p_1$ , using the randomness produced by  $\mathsf{PRF}(\mathsf{seed}, \mathbf{v})$ .
- 2. Combining Basis Preimages to Functional Preimage. Define

$$\mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}} = \mathbf{E} \cdot \mathbf{v} + \mathbf{E}^{\times} \cdot \mathbf{v}^{\times} \in \mathbb{R}^{m} \tag{3.1}$$

3. Output  $(\mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}, \mathbf{v}, \mathbf{v}^{\times})$ .

 $\mathsf{NLinFE.Dec}(\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}},\mathsf{SK}_{\mathbf{v}})$ : On input a ciphertext  $\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}} = \left(\mathbf{c},\mathbf{b},\{\mathbf{d}_1^\ell,\mathbf{d}_2^\ell\}_{\ell\in[k]}\right)$  and a secret key  $\mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}$  for function  $\mathbf{v}$ , do the following

1. Compute encoding of noise term on the fly as:

$$\mathbf{d}^{\times} \stackrel{\text{\tiny def}}{=} (\sum_{\ell \in [k]} \mathbf{d}_1^{\ell} \otimes \mathbf{d}_2^{\ell}) \in R_{p_2}^L$$

2. Compute functional ciphertext as:

$$b_{\mathbf{v}} = \mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{b} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{d}^{\times} \in R_{p_2}$$

3. Compute  $b_{\mathbf{v}} - \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{c} \mod p_1$  and output it.

We do not explain here why the scheme is correct. We refer the reader to Appendix B (page 85) of Agrawal's original construction [2], or to Section 6 of the present article, where we perform very similar computations in the context of our new construction.

Remark on the parameters. In the above scheme, one should think of  $B_1$  as being poly( $\kappa$ ),  $B_2 = \text{superpoly}(\kappa) \cdot B_1$  and  $N = (krn \log(p_2))^{1+\varepsilon}$  for some  $\varepsilon > 0$ .

<span id="page-11-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> The PRF is used to ensure that two different calls to  $\mathsf{NLinFE}.\mathsf{KeyGen}()$  with the same vector  $\mathbf{v}$  will produce the same secret key.

### <span id="page-12-0"></span>Multi-Ciphertext Attack on Agrawal's NLinFE

Agrawal [2] provided a proof of security for her construction (under a non-standard assumption) in a weak security game where the adversary may only request a single ciphertext. In this section, we show that her construction is in fact insecure if the adversary has access to multiple ciphertexts.

In this section, we first formally define a variant of the RLWE problem, which we call the RLWE problem with correlated noise. The distribution of the elements in this problem is similar to the one obtained by the encryption procedure of the NLinFE scheme described above. We then show that this problem can be solved in polynomial time by an attacker, hence resulting in an attack on Agrawal's NLinFE construction.

**Definition 4.1.** (RLWE with correlated noise). Let  $R = \mathbf{Z}[X]/(X^n + 1)$  for n a power of two. Let  $m, k, q \in \mathbb{Z}_{>0}$  and  $\sigma \in \mathbb{R}_{>0}$  be some parameters (q will be the modulus, m the number of samples and  $\sigma$  the standard deviation of a small Gaussian distribution). We let  $\mathcal{D}(\Lambda)$  be the discrete Gaussian distribution with parameter  $\sigma$  over some lattice  $\Lambda$ , and we simplify  $\mathcal{D}(R)$  into  $\mathcal{D}$ .

The RLWE problem with correlated noise is to distinguish between

$$\left(\frac{f_{1i}}{g_1}t_1[j] + \xi_{1i}[j] \cdot g_2 \bmod q, \frac{f_{2i}}{g_2}t_2[j] + \xi_{2i}[j] \cdot g_1 \bmod q\right)_{\substack{1 \leq i \leq k \\ 1 \leq j \leq m}} \quad and \quad \left(u_{1i}[j], u_{2i}[j]\right)_{\substack{1 \leq i \leq k \\ 1 \leq j \leq m}},$$

where

```
-g_1,g_2\leftarrow\mathcal{D};
-f_{1i}, f_{2i} \leftarrow \mathcal{D} \text{ for all } 1 \leq i \leq k;
-f_{1j}, t_{2}[j] \leftarrow \mathcal{D} \text{ for all } 1 \leq j \leq m;
-g_{2} \cdot \xi_{1i}[j] \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(g_{2} \cdot R) \text{ and } g_{1} \cdot \xi_{2i}[j] \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(g_{1} \cdot R) \text{ for all } 1 \leq i \leq k \text{ and } 1 \leq j \leq m;
 -u_{1i}[j], u_{2i}[j] \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} R_a \text{ for all } 1 \leq i \leq k \text{ and } 1 \leq j \leq m.
```

Remark 4.2. This RLWE problem with correlated noise differs from the classical RLWE problem in 4 different ways:

- Instead of being uniform, the elements a are of the form  $\frac{f_i}{q} \mod q$  with  $f_i$  and g small modulo q,
- There are multiple secrets  $t_1[j]$  and  $t_2[j]$ , The elements  $\frac{f_i}{g}$  are secret,
- The noise is correlated with the elements  $\frac{f_i}{q}$  (instead of following a small Gaussian distribution).

Observe that if we obtain m ciphertexts from the NLinFE construction described above, and if we only keep in each ciphertext the part corresponding to  $\ell=1$ , then the elements obtained follow a RLWE with correlated noise distribution. The notation [j] refers to the j-th ciphertext, and we dropped the index  $\ell$  since we are only considering  $\ell=1$ .

The next lemma explains how we can solve the RLWE problem with correlated noise in polynomial time, using 4 pairs of elements (obtained by varying i and j).

<span id="page-12-1"></span>**Lemma 4.3.** Assume  $k, m \geq 2$ , that  $\sigma \geq 1$  and that the modulus q is a prime integer congruent to 1 modulo 2n such that  $q \gg (n\sigma)^8$ . Let  $(b_{1i}[j], b_{2i}[j])_{1 \le i,j \le 2}$  be obtained from either the RLWE distribution with correlated noise or the uniform distribution over  $R_q$ . Let us define

$$\begin{split} b := & (b_{1,1}[1] \cdot b_{2,1}[1] \cdot b_{1,2}[2] \cdot b_{2,2}[2] + b_{1,1}[2] \cdot b_{2,1}[2] \cdot b_{1,2}[1] \cdot b_{2,2}[1] \\ & - b_{1,1}[2] \cdot b_{2,1}[1] \cdot b_{1,2}[1] \cdot b_{2,2}[2] - b_{1,1}[1] \cdot b_{2,1}[2] \cdot b_{1,2}[2] \cdot b_{2,2}[1]) \bmod q. \end{split}$$

If the  $b_{\beta i}[j]$  come from the uniform distribution, then  $||b||_{\infty} \ge q/4$  with high probability (over the random choice of the  $(b_{1i}[j], b_{2i}[j])_{1 \le i,j \le 2}$ ). Otherwise,  $||b||_{\infty}$  is small compared to q.

**Proof.** Let us first consider the case where the  $b_{\beta i}[j]$  are uniform modulo q and independent. Observe that b can be written as the determinant of a product of two matrices

$$\mathbf{M}_1 = \begin{pmatrix} b_{1,1}[1] \ b_{1,1}[2] \\ b_{1,2}[1] \ b_{1,2}[2] \end{pmatrix} \text{ and } \mathbf{M}_2 = \begin{pmatrix} b_{2,1}[1] \ b_{2,1}[2] \\ b_{2,2}[1] \ b_{2,2}[2] \end{pmatrix}.$$

These two matrices are uniform over  $R_q$ . Because  $q \equiv 1 \mod 2n$ , we have that  $x^n + 1 = \prod_i (x - \alpha_i) \mod q$  and so  $R_q \simeq \mathbf{Z}_q[x]/(x - \alpha_1) \times \cdots \times \mathbf{Z}_q[x]/(x - \alpha_1) \simeq (\mathbf{Z}_q)^n$ . By Chinese reminder theorem, all the matrices  $\mathbf{M}_b \mod (x - \alpha_i)$  are uniform and independent matrices in  $\mathbf{Z}_q$ . Now, by Chinese reminder theorem and Lemma 2.6, we have that

$$\mathbf{P}(\det(\mathbf{M}_1) \not\in R_q^{\times}) = \mathbf{P}(\exists i, \det(\mathbf{M}_1 \bmod (x - \alpha_i)) \not\in \mathbf{Z}_q^{\times}) \le O\left(\frac{n}{q}\right).$$

Since  $q \geq n^8$ , this implies that  $\mathbf{M}_1$  and  $\mathbf{M}_2$  are invertible with high probability (tending to 1 when n tends to infinity). Recall from Lemma 2.7 that, when conditioned on being invertible, the determinant of  $\mathbf{M}_1$  and  $\mathbf{M}_2$  are uniformly distributed over the invertible elements of  $R_q$ . Hence, we conclude that with high probability, the product  $\det(\mathbf{M}_1) \cdot \det(\mathbf{M}_2)$  is uniform in  $R_q^{\times}$  and so is likely to have infinity norm larger than q/4.

Let us now assume that the  $b_{\beta i}[j]$  come from the RLWE distribution with correlated noise. Then, we have

$$\begin{split} b &= \left(\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[1] + \xi_{1,1}[1] \cdot g_2\right) \left(\frac{f_{2,1}}{g_2}t_2[1] + \xi_{2,1}[1] \cdot g_1\right) \left(\frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[2] + \xi_{1,2}[2] \cdot g_2\right) \left(\frac{f_{2,2}}{g_2}t_2[2] + \xi_{2,2}[2] \cdot g_1\right) \\ &+ \left(\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[2] + \xi_{1,1}[2] \cdot g_2\right) \left(\frac{f_{2,1}}{g_2}t_2[2] + \xi_{2,1}[2] \cdot g_1\right) \left(\frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[1] + \xi_{1,2}[1] \cdot g_2\right) \left(\frac{f_{2,2}}{g_2}t_2[1] + \xi_{2,2}[1] \cdot g_1\right) \\ &- \left(\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[2] + \xi_{1,1}[2] \cdot g_2\right) \left(\frac{f_{2,1}}{g_2}t_2[1] + \xi_{2,1}[1] \cdot g_1\right) \left(\frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[1] + \xi_{1,2}[1] \cdot g_2\right) \left(\frac{f_{2,2}}{g_2}t_2[2] + \xi_{2,2}[2] \cdot g_1\right) \\ &- \left(\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[1] + \xi_{1,1}[1] \cdot g_2\right) \left(\frac{f_{2,1}}{g_2}t_2[2] + \xi_{2,1}[2] \cdot g_1\right) \left(\frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[2] + \xi_{1,2}[2] \cdot g_2\right) \left(\frac{f_{2,2}}{g_2}t_2[1] + \xi_{2,2}[1] \cdot g_1\right), \end{split}$$

where the computations are performed modulo q. Observe that in the products and sums above, all the elements are small. The only things that can be large are the division modulo q by  $g_1$  and  $g_2$ . We are going to show that if we develop the products above, then all the terms containing divisions by  $g_1$  or  $g_2$  are annihilated. So b will be a polynomial of degree 4 of small elements (with no denominator) and hence it will be small compared to q.

Let us consider the first line of the equation above

$$\left(\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[1] + \xi_{1,1}[1] \cdot g_2\right) \cdot \left(\frac{f_{2,1}}{g_2}t_2[1] + \xi_{2,1}[1] \cdot g_1\right) \cdot \left(\frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[2] + \xi_{1,2}[2] \cdot g_2\right) \cdot \left(\frac{f_{2,2}}{g_2}t_2[2] + \xi_{2,2}[2] \cdot g_1\right).$$

When we develop this product, we are going to produce terms with denominators of degree 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 in the  $g_{\beta}$ . Observe that the third line is the same as the first line, where we have exchanged  $t_1[1]$  and  $t_1[2]$  and the corresponding noise terms. So every term of the first line containing

 $\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[1] \cdot \frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[2]$  will be the same as the analogue term in the third line, and so will be annihilated. Similarly, the fourth line is the same as the first line, where we have exchanged  $t_2[1]$  and  $t_2[2]$  and the corresponding noises. So every term of the first line containing  $\frac{f_{2,1}}{g_2}t_2[1] \cdot \frac{f_{2,2}}{g_2}t_2[2]$  will be the same as the analogue term in the fourth line, and so will be annihilated. Using this remark, we argue below that all the terms with denominators in the first line are annihilated.

- The term of degree 4 contains  $\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[1] \cdot \frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[2]$  and so is annihilated by the third line. The terms of degree 3 have to contain 3 denominators out of the 4. So they contain either  $\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[1] \cdot \frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[2]$  or  $\frac{f_{2,1}}{g_2}t_2[1] \cdot \frac{f_{2,2}}{g_2}t_2[2]$ . In both cases, they are annihilated. The terms of degree 2 containing either  $\frac{f_{1,1}}{g_1}t_1[1] \cdot \frac{f_{1,2}}{g_1}t_1[2]$  or  $\frac{f_{2,1}}{g_2}t_2[1] \cdot \frac{f_{2,2}}{g_2}t_2[2]$  are annihilated. It remains the terms of degree 2 whose denominator is  $g_1g_2$ . But these terms are multiplied by a noise term which is a multiple of  $q_1$  and another noise term which is a multiple of  $q_2$ . Hence the denominator is annihilated and these terms are just polynomials in the small elements.
- The terms of degree 1 have denominator  $g_1$  or  $g_2$ . But they are multiplied by noise terms that are multiples of  $q_1$  and  $q_2$ . Hence the denominator is annihilated and these terms are polynomials in the small elements.

To conclude, all the terms are either eliminated thanks to the symmetries, or the denominators are removed by multiplication by  $q_1$  and  $q_2$ . Similarly, we can show that this holds for all the four lines. Hence, b is a polynomial of degree at most 8 in the  $g_{\beta}$ ,  $f_{\beta i}$ ,  $t_{\beta}[j]$  and  $\xi_{\beta i}[j]$ , which are bounded by  $\sqrt{n} \cdot \sigma$  with overwhelming probability. Since  $q \gg (n\sigma)^8$ , we conclude that b is much smaller than q with overwhelming probability. A sage code implementing the above attack (for the ring  $R=\mathbb{Z}$ ) is provided at https://apelletm.github.io/code/NLinFE\_multiciphertexts\_attack.sage.

Concluding the attack. To conclude the attack on Agrawal's NLinFE scheme, let us now explain how the distinguishing attack described above can be used to recover the secret elements of the RLWE with correlated noise instance. We have seen in Lemma 4.3 that, from four instances of RLWE with correlated noise, one can compute a quantity b which is significantly smaller than the modulus q. This means that one can recover b over the ring R, without reduction modulo q. Let us consider such an element b, obtained from the four RLWE with correlated noise instances  $(b_{1i}[j], b_{2i}[j]), (b_{1i'}[j], b_{2i'}[j]), (b_{1i}[j'], b_{2i}[j']), (b_{1i'}[j'], b_{2i'}[j'])$  (for simplicity, the lemma above is stated with i, j = 1 and i', j' = 2, but it can be generalized to any choice of (i, j, i', j'), with  $i \neq i'$  and  $j \neq j'$ ). Computing b as in Lemma 4.3, we obtain a polynomial over R of degree 8 in 16 variables (the  $g_{\beta}$ , the t[j]'s, the  $f_{\beta,i}$  and the  $\xi_{\beta,i}[j]$ ). More generally, if we consider all the equations one can create by computing b as above for i, j, i', j' varying in  $\{1, \dots, \ell\}$ , with  $i \neq i'$  and  $j \neq j'$ , then one can obtain  $\ell^2(\ell-1)^2$  equations of degree 8 in  $2+3\ell+2\ell^2$  variables. Choosing  $\ell=3$ provides 36 equations in 29 variables, hence one may hope that this system has a unique solution, and that solving it would reveal the values of the secret parameters.

Solving a system of polynomial equations is hard in general, but the hardness increases with the number of variables. Hence, if the number of variable is constant (here equal to 29), solving a polynomial system of equations should be easy. One way to solve such a system is by computing a Gröbner basis of the ideal generated by the multivariate polynomials. This can be done in the worst case in time doubly exponential in the number of variables (see for instance [49, 16]), which is constant in our case, as we have a constant number of variables. Once we have a Gröbner basis

<span id="page-14-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> In all this discussion, we are interested in the theoretical complexity. In practice, solving an arbitrary overdetermined system with 29 variables could take a lot of time, but this time would not increase with the security parameter  $\kappa$ , hence, it is constant for our purposes.

corresponding to our system of equations, we can solve it by computing the roots of a constant number of univariate polynomials over K (the fraction field of R). Since we know that the solution of our system is in  $R^{29}$ , it is sufficient to compute the roots of the polynomials over K with precision 1/2, and then round them to the nearest integer element. Solving these univariate polynomial equations can hence be done in polynomial time (in the size of the output).

Alternatively, to avoid numerical issues, we could choose a large prime number p, which we know is larger than all the noise terms arising in the equations, and then solve the system in R/(pR). Hopefully, the system is still overdetermined modulo p, and so has a unique solution which corresponds to the solution over R. Thanks to the fact that p is larger than the noise terms, recovering a solution modulo p reveals it exactly. This approach can also be done in time doubly exponential in the number of variables, and polynomial in p and in p and in p and p and p and p are the fact that p is larger than the noise terms, recovering a solution modulo p reveals it exactly. This approach can also be done in time doubly exponential in the number of variables, and polynomial in p and in p and in p and p are the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the fact that p is the

To conclude, the elements b enable us to recover equations of degree 8 in a constant number of variables, which can then be solved efficiently. This means that we can recover the secret elements  $g_{\beta}$ , t[j],  $f_{\beta,i}$  and  $\xi_{\beta,i}[j]$  of the RLWE with correlated noise instances in polynomial time (given sufficiently many instances).

# <span id="page-15-0"></span>5 Rank Attack on Agrawal's NLinFE

In this section, we present a novel "rank attack" against the NLinFE scheme. The attack exploits the property that the NLinFE scheme must compute a noise term with special structure: in detail, the noise term must be expressible as a linear combination of noise terms which are multiples of moduli  $p_i$  for  $i \in [0, D-2]$ . The moduli  $p_i$  in this case are public – this enables the attacker to recover noise terms at different "levels", namely, corresponding to different moduli. The attack exploits the fact that while the noise terms corresponding to some moduli are highly non-linear and difficult to exploit, those corresponding to some others are in fact linear and may be exploited by carefully arranging them into a matrix and computing its rank. We provide details below.

#### 5.1 Exploiting the noise obtained after decrypting a message.

Let us first explicit the noise obtained after decryption. When computing  $b_{\mathbf{v}} - \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{c}$  for a valid ciphertext and secret key, one obtains something much smaller than  $p_2$ , which can hence be recovered exactly. This noise is the following

$$\begin{aligned} b_{\mathbf{v}} &- \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{c} \\ &= \mathbf{v}^{T} \mathbf{z} + p_{1} \mathbf{v}^{T} \boldsymbol{\eta} - p_{0} (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \boldsymbol{\Delta} \cdot s - p_{1} (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \widetilde{\boldsymbol{\Delta}} \cdot s - p_{1} (\mathbf{v}^{T} \mathbf{E} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \mathbf{E}^{\times}) \boldsymbol{\nu} \\ &+ \sum_{\ell, i, j} v_{ij}^{\times} \left[ p_{1} \cdot \left( p_{1} \cdot (g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell}) + p_{0} \cdot (g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell} + g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell}) \right. \\ &+ \left. \left( f_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot t_{1} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} + f_{2j}^{\ell} \cdot t_{2} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \right) \right) + p_{0} \cdot \left( p_{0} \cdot (g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell}) + (f_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot t_{1} \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell} + f_{2j}^{\ell} \cdot t_{2} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell}) \right) \right], \end{aligned}$$

where  $\Delta$  and  $\widetilde{\Delta}$  are vectors of dimension L whose elements are respectively the  $\Delta_{ij}$  and  $\widetilde{\Delta}_{ij}$ . This noise term is quite complicated, but since it involves multiples of  $p_1$  and  $p_0$  (which are known), one can distinguish the noise terms that are multiples of  $p_0, p_0^2, p_1, p_1^2$  and  $p_0p_1$ . Here, we assume that the noise terms that are multiplied by the  $p_i$ 's are small enough so that the different multiples do not overlap. While this should be true for correctness that  $p_1$  is much larger than the multiples of

 $p_0$  appearing in the term above, this might not be true for instance when splitting the multiple of  $p_0$  from the multiple of  $p_0^2$  (one could for instance think of  $p_0=4$ ). As we should see below however, this will not be a problem for our attack. To see this, let us write  $p_0 \cdot \text{small}_1 + p_0^2 \cdot \text{small}_2 + p_1 \cdot \text{small}_3$  the noise term above. As we have said, for correctness, it should hold that, when reducing this term modulo  $p_1$ , we obtain  $p_0 \cdot \text{small}_1 + p_0^2 \cdot \text{small}_2$  over  $p_0$ . Now, dividing by  $p_0$  and reducing the obtained term modulo  $p_0$ , we recover small<sub>1</sub> mod  $p_0$ . In the rank attack below, we exploit the noise term small<sub>1</sub>, which we might know only modulo  $p_0$  (and not over  $p_0$ ). However, all we do on this noise terms is linear algebra, and does not depend on the ring in which we are considering the elements. Hence, we could as well perform the attack in  $p_0$  if we recovered only small<sub>1</sub> mod  $p_0$ .

Recall also that in the distinguishing game, the adversary chooses two messages  $\mathbf{z}_0$  and  $\mathbf{z}_1$  with the constraint that  $\mathbf{v}^T\mathbf{z}_0 = \mathbf{v}^T\mathbf{z}_1 + p_0 \cdot \mu$  for any vector  $\mathbf{v}$  for which she has a secret key (with a small  $\mu$ ). She then gets back the encryption of one of the two messages and wants to know which one was encoded. In other words, if  $\mathbf{z}$  is the encrypted message, the adversary knows that  $\mathbf{v}^T\mathbf{z} = x$  or  $x + p_0 \cdot \mu$  for some known values of x and  $\mu$  (with  $p_0 \cdot \mu$  smaller than some bound  $B_1$ ), and wants to distinguish between these two cases. We can then assume that the adversary removes x from the noise term, and is left with either 0 or  $p_0 \cdot \mu$ . The adversary can then obtain the following noise terms (where we have split the noise term according to the moduli, as discussed above).

<span id="page-16-1"></span>
$$\sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{i,j} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} \right) g_{2}^{\ell} g_{1}^{\ell} \tag{5.1}$$

<span id="page-16-2"></span>
$$\sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{i,j} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \xi_{2j}^{\ell} \right) g_2^{\ell} g_1^{\ell} \tag{5.2}$$

<span id="page-16-3"></span>
$$\sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{i,j} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot (\tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \xi_{2j}^{\ell} + \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \xi_{2j}^{\ell}) \right) g_{2}^{\ell} g_{1}^{\ell} \tag{5.3}$$

<span id="page-16-0"></span>
$$\sum_{i,j,\ell} v_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \left( f_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot t_1 \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell} + f_{2j}^{\ell} \cdot t_2 \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \right) + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \Delta \cdot s + (0 \text{ or } \mu)$$

$$(5.4)$$

<span id="page-16-4"></span>
$$\sum_{i,j,\ell} v_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \left( f_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot t_{1} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} + f_{2j}^{\ell} \cdot t_{2} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \right) + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \widetilde{\boldsymbol{\Delta}} \cdot s + \mathbf{v}^{T} \boldsymbol{\eta} + (\mathbf{v}^{T} \mathbf{E} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \mathbf{E}^{\times}) \boldsymbol{\nu}$$
 (5.5)

In the noise terms above, the blue elements are secret and are fixed for all ciphertexts and secret keys; the red elements are known and depend only on the secret key; the black elements are secret and depend only on the ciphertexts; and the brown element is the challenge. The value  $\mu$  of the challenge can be chosen by the adversary, and the adversary has to decide, given the above noise terms, whether (5.4) contains 0 or  $\mu$ . Recall also that the vector  $\mathbf{v}$  can be chosen by the adversary whereas the vector  $\mathbf{v}^{\times}$  is chosen by the challenger as the polynomial that computes a PRG. The blue and red elements above can be modified independently, by considering another secret key or another ciphertext.

#### 5.2 Rank Attack to Distinguish bit.

The rank attack focuses on the noise term (5.4). As this noise term contains the challenge, it suffices to distinguish between a noise term with 0 or a noise term with  $\mu$  to break the NLinFE construction.

Let us rewrite the equation in a more convenient way.

$$\sum_{i,j,\ell} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \left( f_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot t_{1} \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell} + f_{2j}^{\ell} \cdot t_{2} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \right) + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \Delta \cdot s + (0 \text{ or } \mu)$$

$$= \sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{j} \left( \sum_{i} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot f_{1i}^{\ell} \right) \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell} \cdot t_{1} \right) + \sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{j} \left( \sum_{i} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot f_{2i}^{\ell} \right) \cdot \xi_{1j}^{\ell} \cdot t_{1} \right)$$

$$+ ((\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \Delta) \cdot s + (0 \text{ or } \mu).$$

Recall that in the equations above, the blue terms are fixed, the red terms depend only on the secret key and the black terms depend only on the ciphertext. Hence, one can observe that if the challenge is 0, then the equation above is a sum of products, where in every product one term depends only on the secret key and the other one depends only on the ciphertext. Concatenating all these elements into two vectors, one obtains [\(5.4\)](#page-16-0) = ha, bi, where a depends only on the secret key and b depends only on the ciphertext (and they are both secret). As the blue terms are fixed, we can choose to put them either in the secret key side, or on the ciphertext side. Here, we put them on the secret key side, as this allows us to decrease the dimension of the vectors considered.

The dimension of a and b is the number of terms in the sum above. In our case, this dimension is 2rk + 1. To see this, note that ` ∈ [k] and j ∈ [r], and that we are summing over ` and j so we obtain a sum of kr scalars. Hence, this term may be expressed as one big inner product of two vectors of dimension 2rk + 1.

Assume that we can make N<sup>0</sup> := 2rk + 2 requests for secret keys and ciphertexts, and let us write ci,j = ha<sup>i</sup> , b<sup>j</sup> i + (0 or µij ) the noise term obtained when evaluating the NLinFE scheme with the i-th secret key and the j-th ciphertext. Recall that the values µij are chosen by the adversary. Define C and M the N<sup>0</sup> × N<sup>0</sup> matrices (ci,j )i,j and (µij )i,j respectively.

Then, depending on the challenge, we claim that C or C − M is of rank at most N<sup>0</sup> − 1. To see this, note that we have C = A · B + (0 or M), so that either C or C − M is equal A · B. Now, it holds that A has dimension N<sup>0</sup> × N<sup>0</sup> − 1 and B has dimension N<sup>0</sup> − 1 × N0, so that A · B has rank at most N<sup>0</sup> − 1. On the other hand, the other matrix is of the form A · B ± M, which has full rank with good probability (even if M has only rank 1, the sum of a matrix of rank N<sup>0</sup> − 1 and a matrix of rank 1 is likely to have rank N<sup>0</sup> if the two matrices are independent, which is the case here).[7](#page-17-0) Hence, computing the determinant of the matrix C allows to determine what was the challenge, and to break the security of the NLinFE scheme.

The case of degree > 2. In the general case, if the degree of the NLinFE scheme is d instead of 2, then the same reasoning applies. The only difference is that the vectors a and b will have dimension d · k · r + 1, so one needs to be able to make N<sup>0</sup> := d · k · r + 2 key and ciphertext queries for the

<span id="page-17-0"></span><sup>7</sup> Observe that even if the µij are somehow chosen by the adversary, they cannot be chosen arbitrarily. Indeed, µij is the inner product between the vector corresponding to the i-th secret key, with the difference of the two messages of the j-th pair of challenge messages. Hence, the matrix M has rank at most w, where w is the size of these vectors. However, as said above, it is sufficient to have M of rank at least 1 for the attack to go through, and this can be ensured by the attacker (it simply needs to take M 6= 0).

attack. More precisely, in degree d, the term [\(5.4\)](#page-16-0) becomes

$$(5.4) = \sum_{\delta=1}^{d} \sum_{\ell=1}^{k} \sum_{1 \leq i_{1}, \dots, i_{d} \leq r} \mathbf{v}_{i_{1}, \dots, i_{d}}^{\times} \left( \prod_{j \neq \delta} f_{j, i_{j}}^{\ell} \cdot t_{j} \right) \xi_{\delta, i_{\delta}}^{\ell} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \boldsymbol{\Delta} \cdot s + (0 \text{ or } \boldsymbol{\mu})$$

$$= \sum_{\delta=1}^{d} \sum_{\ell=1}^{k} \sum_{1 \leq i_{1}, \dots, i_{d} \leq r} \mathbf{v}_{i_{1}, \dots, i_{d}}^{\times} \cdot \prod_{j \neq \delta} f_{j, i_{j}}^{\ell} \cdot \prod_{j \neq \delta} t_{j} \cdot \xi_{\delta, i_{\delta}}^{\ell} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \boldsymbol{\Delta} \cdot s + (0 \text{ or } \boldsymbol{\mu})$$

$$= \sum_{\delta=1}^{d} \sum_{\ell=1}^{k} \sum_{i_{\delta}=1}^{r} \left( \sum_{1 \leq i_{j} \leq r, j \neq \delta} \mathbf{v}_{i_{1}, \dots, i_{d}}^{\times} \cdot \prod_{j \neq \delta} f_{j, i_{j}}^{\ell} \right) \cdot \xi_{\delta, i_{\delta}}^{\ell} \cdot \prod_{j \neq \delta} t_{j} + ((\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \boldsymbol{\Delta}) \cdot s + (0 \text{ or } \boldsymbol{\mu}).$$

For the first term, we are now summing dkr elements, and each one corresponds to the product of two scalars. Hence, the left term can be written as one inner product of two vectors of dimension d · k · r, with one vector depending only on the secret key and one depending only on the ciphertext. The analysis of the term (v ×) <sup>T</sup>∆ · s is the same as before. To conclude, taking N<sup>0</sup> = d · k · r + 2 and performing the same attack as above enables us to distinguish whether the challenge is 0 or µ.

We conclude that as long as one can make N<sup>0</sup> := d · k · r + 2 secret key queries, the NLinFE construction of Agrawal can be broken in polynomial time. Recall that to imply iO, an NLinFE scheme should support N key queries for N superlinear in the ciphertexts size. In our case, the ciphertext size is ≥ r · k · d · n log(p2). Hence, the NLinFE construction is insecure in the regime where it implies iO.

# <span id="page-18-0"></span>6 Modifying Construction to Fix Attacks

In this section, we describe an approach to fix the above two attacks. Intuitively, the reason for the multiple ciphertext attack to work is commutativity: we mix and match the LWE labels and secrets across multiple ciphertexts to compute the large term in two different ways. An over-simplification is that if two ciphertexts CT<sup>1</sup> and CT<sup>2</sup> have LWE secrets s and t respectively, and a and b are labels, then CT<sup>1</sup> contains encodings with large terms as and bs and CT<sup>2</sup> contains encodings with large terms at and bt. But now, (as)·(bt) = (bs)·(at), which implies that we can multiply encodings from different ciphertexts in two different ways to get the same large term, which may then be removed by subtraction. While the attack developed in Section [4](#page-12-0) is more elaborate, the intuition remains the same as in the simplification discussed here.

The reason for the rank attack on the other hand is the presence of the moduli p<sup>0</sup> and p1, which allow to separate the noise terms, and obtain one noise term which is only linear in the freshly chosen error elements.

Fixing the multiple ciphertext attack. As shown by the above discussion, the chief vulnerability exploited by the attack is commutativity of polynomials. However, if we replace scalar product by inner product, we get that the first ciphertext contains the terms ha, si and hb, si and the second ciphertext contains the terms ha, ti and hb, ti. Attempting to launch the above attack shows that:

$$\langle \mathbf{a}, \mathbf{s} \rangle \cdot \langle \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{t} \rangle \neq \langle \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{s} \rangle \cdot \langle \mathbf{a}, \mathbf{t} \rangle$$

This prevents the mix and match attacks of the kind discussed in Section 4 since each large term now uniquely corresponds to a single product of encodings and may not be generated in two different ways. As explained in Section 7.2, the multiple ciphertext attack can still be generalized to this setting, but the modulus q will need to be exponential in the dimension of the vectors for the attack to work, and so we can prevent the attack by choosing the dimension to be larger than  $\log q$ .

Fixing the rank attack. In order to fix the rank attack, we propose to remove the modulus  $p_0$  from the encodings, i.e., consider encodings of the form  $d_{1i}^{\ell} = \langle \mathbf{h}_{1i}^{\ell}, \mathbf{t}_1 \rangle + p_1 \cdot e_{1i}^{\ell} + \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell}$ . This way, it will be harder to split the noise term at the end (we will only have three "levels" 1,  $p_1$  and  $p_1^2$  instead of five levels before), and we will show that the noise terms obtained this way seem hard to exploit now. One may want to also remove the modulus  $p_1$  from the construction, and only consider one noise term, but as we should see in the construction, the modulus  $p_1$  is needed for correctness (not only for the shape of the output noise), and so cannot be removed easily.

Recall that the modulus  $p_0$  was present because we wanted to flood a noise term of the form  $\mathsf{noise}_0 \cdot p_0$  (the modulus  $p_1$  is used because the messages are living in  $R_{p_1}$ ). In more generality, in the bootstrapping procedure used in [2] to construct iO, we will want to flood a noise term of the form  $\mathsf{noise}_0 \cdot p_0 + \cdots + \mathsf{noise}_{D-2} \cdot p_{D-2}$  for some integer D related to the degree of the FE scheme we want to construct. We will also want the message space of the NLinFE scheme to be  $R_{p_{D-1}}$  and the ciphertext space to be  $R_{p_D}$ , with  $p_0 < p_1 < \cdots < p_D$  for prime numbers  $p_i$ . Finally, we need for the bootsrapping procedure that the noise output by the NLinFE scheme be of the form  $\mathsf{noise}'_0 \cdot p_0 + \cdots + \mathsf{noise}'_{D-2} \cdot p_{D-2}$ , so that when we add this noise to the original noise, we still have a linear combination of the  $p_i$ 's, with  $i \leq D-2$ .

From arbitrary flooding noise to structured flooding noise. When we remove the moduli from Agrawal's construction as discussed above, we obtain an  $\mathsf{NLinFE}$  scheme where the flooding noise term is arbitrary in R, and so not of the desired shape  $\mathsf{noise}_0' \cdot p_0 + \cdots + \mathsf{noise}_{D-2}' \cdot p_{D-2}$ . We can however use this  $\mathsf{NLinFE}$  scheme to construct a new  $\mathsf{NLinFE}'$  scheme, with a flooding noise term of the desired shape. Intuitively, the idea is to use an additive secret sharing of the messages  $\mathbf{z} = \mathbf{z}_0 + \cdots + \mathbf{z}_{D-2}$ , and then encode  $\mathbf{z}_0/p_0, \cdots, \mathbf{z}_{D-2}/p_{D-2}$  using the  $\mathsf{NLinFE}$  scheme without moduli. To recover the inner product  $\langle \mathbf{v}, \mathbf{z} \rangle$ , one then compute  $p_0 \cdot \langle \mathbf{v}, \mathbf{z}_0/p_0 \rangle + \cdots + p_{D-2} \cdot \langle \mathbf{v}, \mathbf{z}_{D-2}/p_{D-2} \rangle$ , and so the noise term will have the desired shape.

More precisely, the NLinFE' scheme proceeds as follows

 $\mathsf{NLinFE}'.\mathsf{Setup}(1^\kappa,1^w)$ : Run  $\mathsf{NLinFE}.\mathsf{Setup}(1^\kappa,1^w)$  D-1 times to obtain D-1 master secret keys  $\mathsf{MSK}_i$  and output  $(\mathsf{MSK}_0,\cdots,\mathsf{MSK}_{D-2})$ .

 $\mathsf{NLinFE}'.\mathsf{Enc}((\mathsf{MSK}_0,\cdots,\mathsf{MSK}_{D-2}),\mathbf{z}) \text{: where } \mathbf{z} \in R^w_{p_{D-1}}.$ 

- 1. Sample  $(\mathbf{z}_0, \dots, \mathbf{z}_{D-3})$  uniformly at random in  $R_{p_{D-1}}$  and define  $\mathbf{z}_{D-2}$  such that  $\sum_{i=0}^{D-2} \mathbf{z}_i = \mathbf{z}$ .
- 2. For i in  $\{0, \dots, D-2\}$ , compute  $\mathsf{CT}_i = \mathsf{NLinFE.Enc}(\mathsf{MSK}_i, \mathbf{z}_i/p_i)$ . Here, the division by  $p_i$  is performed modulo  $p_{D-1}$ , and is possible because  $p_i$  is coprime with  $p_{D-1}$  for all  $i \leq D-2$ . Output  $\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}} = (\mathsf{CT}_0, \dots, \mathsf{CT}_{D-2})$ .

NLinFE'.KeyGen(MSK, v): output

$$\mathsf{SK}_{\mathbf{v}} = (\mathsf{NLinFE}.\mathsf{KeyGen}(\mathsf{MSK}_0,\mathbf{v}),\cdots,\mathsf{NLinFE}.\mathsf{KeyGen}(\mathsf{MSK}_{D-2},\mathbf{v})).$$

 $\mathsf{NLinFE'}.\mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}},\mathsf{SK}_{\mathbf{v}})$ : where  $\mathbf{z} \in R^w_{p_{D-1}}$ .

- 1. Parse  $\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}}$  as  $\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}} = (\mathsf{CT}_0, \cdots, \mathsf{CT}_{D-2})$  and  $\mathsf{SK}_{\mathbf{v}}$  as  $\mathsf{SK}_{\mathbf{v}} = (\mathsf{SK}_1, \cdots, \mathsf{SK}_{D-2})$ .
- 2. Compute  $y_i = \mathsf{NLinFE.Dec}(\mathsf{CT}_i, \mathsf{SK}_i) \in R_{p_{D-1}}$  for  $0 \le i \le D-2$ .

Output  $\sum_{i=0}^{D-2} p_i y_i \mod p_{D-1}$ .

For correctness, observe that in the  $\mathsf{NLinFE}'$  decryption algorithm, we have  $y_i = \langle \mathbf{z}_i/p_i, \mathbf{v} \rangle + \mathsf{noise}_i$  by correctness of  $\mathsf{NLinFE}$  (if the ciphertexts and secret keys are valid). So the output is indeed of the form  $\langle \mathbf{z}, \mathbf{v} \rangle + \sum_i \mathsf{noise}_i \cdot p_i$ : we have  $\langle \mathbf{z}, \mathbf{v} \rangle$  plus a noise term of the desired shape.

We conclude that, for the bootstrapping procedure of [2], it is sufficient to construct an NLinFE scheme, with message space  $R_{p_{D-1}}$ , ciphertext space  $R_{p_D}$  and arbitrary flooding noise. The new NLinFE construction we propose below satisfies these conditions.

#### 6.1 The New NLinFE Construction

Below, we present a modified variant of the NLinFE construction of [2], designed to avoid the multiple ciphertext attack and the rank attack, as discussed above.

 $\mathsf{NLinFE}.\mathsf{Setup}(1^\kappa, 1^w)$ : On input a security parameter  $\kappa$ , a parameter w denoting the length of the function and message vectors, do the following:

- 1. Sample  $\mathbf{W} \leftarrow R_{p_D}^{m \times \kappa^2}$  with a trapdoor  $\mathbf{T}$  using the algorithm TrapGen.
- 2. Sample  $\mathbf{E} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^{m \times w}$  and set  $\mathbf{A} = \mathbf{E}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{W} \in R_{p_{\mathcal{D}}}^{w \times \kappa^2}$  (recall that  $\mathcal{D}$  is a discrete Gaussian distribution over R of parameter  $\sigma$ ).
- 3. For  $i \in \{1, ..., r\}$ ,  $\ell \in \{1, ..., k\}$ , sample  $\mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}$ ,  $\mathbf{f}_{2i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^{\kappa}$  and  $g_{1}^{\ell}, g_{2}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$ . If  $g_{1}^{\ell}, g_{2}^{\ell}$  are not invertible over  $R_{p_{D}}$ , resample. Set

$$\mathbf{h}_{1i}^\ell = \frac{\mathbf{f}_{1i}^\ell}{g_1^\ell}, \quad \mathbf{h}_{2i}^\ell = \frac{\mathbf{f}_{2i}^\ell}{g_2^\ell} \in R_{p_D}^\kappa$$

4. Sample short  $\mathbf{e}_{ij} \in \mathbb{R}^m$  using SamplePre such that

$$\mathbf{W}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{e}_{ij} = \mathbf{h}_{ij}, \text{ where } \mathbf{h}_{ij} \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} \sum_{\ell \in [k]} \mathbf{h}_{1i}^{\ell} \otimes \mathbf{h}_{2j}^{\ell} + p_{D-1}\boldsymbol{\Delta}_{ij} + \tilde{\boldsymbol{\Delta}}_{ij}.$$

Above  $\Delta_{ij}$ ,  $\tilde{\Delta}_{ij} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^{\kappa^2} \in R^{\kappa^2}$  for  $1 \leq j \leq i \leq r$ .

Let 
$$\mathbf{E}^{\times} = (\mathbf{e}_{ij}) \in R^{m \times L}$$

where  $L = |1 \le j \le i \le r|$ .

5. Sample a PRF seed, denoted as seed.

Output

$$\mathsf{MSK} = \left( \ \mathbf{W}, \mathbf{T}, \mathbf{A}, \mathbf{E}, \mathbf{E}^\times \big\{ \mathbf{f}_{1i}^\ell, \mathbf{f}_{2i}^\ell \big\}_{i \in [r], \ell \in [k]}, \big\{ g_1^\ell, g_2^\ell \big\}_{\ell \in [k]}, \mathsf{seed} \ \right)$$

 $\mathsf{NLinFE.Enc}(\mathsf{MSK},\mathbf{z}) .$  On input public key  $\mathsf{MSK},$  a message vector  $\mathbf{z} \in R^w_{p_{D-1}},$  do:

1. Sample  $\mathbf{t}_1, \mathbf{t}_2 \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^{\kappa}$ . Set  $\mathbf{s} = \mathbf{t}_1 \otimes \mathbf{t}_2 \in R^{\kappa^2}$ .

2. Construct Message Encodings. Sample  $\nu \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^m$ ,  $\eta \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^w$  and compute:

$$\mathbf{c} = \mathbf{W}\mathbf{s} + p_{D-1} \cdot \boldsymbol{\nu} \in R^m_{p_D}, \quad \mathbf{b} = \mathbf{A}\mathbf{s} + p_{D-1} \cdot \boldsymbol{\eta} + \mathbf{z} \in R^w_{p_D},$$

where  $\mathbf{z} \in R_{p_{D-1}}^w$  is seen as a vector of R with coefficients in  $\left(-\frac{p_{D-1}}{2}, \frac{p_{D-1}}{2}\right]$  and then reduced modulo  $p_D$ .

- 3. Sample Structured Noise. To compute encodings of noise, do the following:
  - (a) Define lattices:

$$\Lambda_1^{\ell} \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} g_1^{\ell} \cdot R, \quad \Lambda_2^{\ell} \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} g_2^{\ell} \cdot R$$

(b) Sample noise terms from the above lattices as:

$$e_{1i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(\Lambda_2^{\ell}), \, \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(\Lambda_2^{\ell}), \quad e_{2i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(\Lambda_1^{\ell}), \, \tilde{e}_{2i}^{\ell} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(\Lambda_1^{\ell}) \quad \forall i \in [r], \ell \in [k]$$

- 4. Compute Encodings of Noise.
  - (a) Let

$$d_{1i}^\ell = \langle \mathbf{h}_{1i}^\ell, \ \mathbf{t}_1 \rangle + p_{D-1} \cdot e_{1i}^\ell + \tilde{e}_{1i}^\ell \in R_{p_D} \quad \forall i \in [r], \ell \in [k].$$

Let 
$$\mathbf{d}_{1}^{\ell} = (d_{1i}^{\ell}).$$

(b) Similarly, let

$$d_{2i}^\ell = \langle \mathbf{h}_{2i}^\ell, \ \mathbf{t}_2 \rangle + p_{D-1} \cdot e_{2i}^\ell + \tilde{e}_{2i}^\ell \in R_{p_D} \quad \forall i \in [r], \ell \in [k].$$

Let 
$$\mathbf{d}_{2}^{\ell} = (d_{2i}^{\ell}).$$

5. **Output Ciphertext.** Output message encodings  $(\mathbf{c}, \mathbf{b})$  and noise encodings  $(\mathbf{d}_1^{\ell}, \mathbf{d}_2^{\ell})$  for  $\ell \in [k]$ .

 $\mathsf{NLinFE}.\mathsf{KeyGen}(\mathsf{MSK},\mathbf{v})$ : On input the master secret key  $\mathsf{MSK}$  and a vector  $\mathbf{v} \in R^w_{p_{D-1}}$ , do the following.

- 1. Sample a noise polynomial. Recall that  $L = |1 \le j \le i \le r|$ . Sample  $\mathbf{v}^{\times} \leftarrow R^L$ , with small coefficients compared to  $p_{D-1}$ , using the randomness produced by PRF(seed,  $\mathbf{v}$ ).
- 2. Combining Basis Preimages to Functional Preimage. Define

$$\mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}} = \mathbf{E} \cdot \mathbf{v} + \mathbf{E}^{\times} \cdot \mathbf{v}^{\times} \in R^{m} \tag{6.1}$$

3. Output  $(\mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}, \mathbf{v}, \mathbf{v}^{\times})$ .

 $\mathsf{NLinFE.Dec}(\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}},\mathsf{SK}_{\mathbf{v}})$ : On input a ciphertext  $\mathsf{CT}_{\mathbf{z}} = \left(\mathbf{c},\mathbf{b},\{\mathbf{d}_1^\ell,\mathbf{d}_2^\ell\}_{\ell\in[k]}\right)$  and a secret key  $\mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}$  for function  $\mathbf{v}$ , do the following

1. Compute encoding of noise term on the fly as:

$$\mathbf{d}^{\times} \stackrel{\text{\tiny def}}{=} (\sum_{\ell \in [k]} \mathbf{d}_1^{\ell} \otimes \mathbf{d}_2^{\ell}) \in R_{p_D}^L$$

2. Compute functional ciphertext as:

$$b_{\mathbf{v}} = \mathbf{v}^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{b} + (\mathbf{v}^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{X}})^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{d}^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{X}} \in R_{p_D}$$

3. Compute  $(b_{\mathbf{v}} - \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{c} \mod p_D) \mod p_{D-1}$  and output it.

Correctness. In this section, we establish that the above scheme is correct. To simplify the analysis, we let  $\mathsf{small}_{D-1}$  denote any term which is small compared to  $p_{D-1}$  and  $\mathsf{small}_D$  be any term which is small compared to  $p_D$ . We also assume that summing polynomially many  $\mathsf{small}_i$  terms or multiplying a constant number of them results in an element which is still a  $\mathsf{small}_i$  (for i = D - 1 or D). We also assume that the parameters are set so that  $\sigma$  is small compared to  $p_{D-1}$  and that  $p_{D-1}$  is small compared to  $p_D$ .

Let us do the analysis by walking through the steps performed by the decrypt algorithm:

1. We compute an encoding of a correlated noise term on the fly as described in Figure 6.1.

### Computing Encoding of Correlated Noise Term for the new construction

We compute  $d_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot d_{2j}^{\ell}$ . Recall that

$$\begin{split} d_{1i}^\ell &= \langle \mathbf{h}_{1i}^\ell, \ \mathbf{t}_1 \rangle + p_{D-1} \cdot e_{1i}^\ell + \tilde{e}_{1i}^\ell \in R_{p_D} \\ d_{2j}^\ell &= \langle \mathbf{h}_{2j}^\ell, \ \mathbf{t}_2 \rangle + p_{D-1} \cdot e_{2i}^\ell + \tilde{e}_{2i}^\ell \in R_{p_D} \end{split}$$

Recall also that  $e_{1i}^{\ell}, \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell}$  are sampled from lattice  $\Lambda_2^{\ell}$  and  $e_{2i}^{\ell}, \tilde{e}_{2i}^{\ell}$  are sampled from lattice  $\Lambda_1^{\ell}$ .

Let 
$$e_{1i}^{\ell} = g_2^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell}$$
,  $\tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell} = g_2^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell}$ ,  
and  $e_{2i}^{\ell} = g_1^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{2i}^{\ell}$ ,  $\tilde{e}_{2i}^{\ell} = g_1^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2i}^{\ell}$ 

Now, we may compute:

$$\begin{split} d_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot d_{2j}^{\ell} &= \left( \langle \mathbf{h}_{1i}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{1} \rangle + p_{D-1} \cdot e_{1j}^{\ell} + \tilde{e}_{1j}^{\ell} \right) \cdot \left( \langle \mathbf{h}_{2j}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{2} \rangle + p_{D-1} \cdot e_{2j}^{\ell} + \tilde{e}_{2j}^{\ell} \right) \\ &= \langle \mathbf{h}_{1i}^{\ell} \otimes \mathbf{h}_{2j}^{\ell}, \ \underbrace{\left( \mathbf{t}_{1} \otimes \mathbf{t}_{2} \right) \rangle}_{\mathbf{s}} + p_{D-1} \cdot \left( \underbrace{p_{D-1} \cdot \left( g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell} \right)}_{\mathbf{small}_{D}} \\ &+ \underbrace{\left( g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell} + g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} \right)}_{\mathbf{small}_{D-1}} + \underbrace{\left( \left( g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} \right) + \left( \left\langle \mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{1} \right\rangle \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} + \left\langle \mathbf{f}_{2j}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{2} \right\rangle \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \right) \right)}_{\mathbf{small}_{D-1}} \end{split}$$

(recall that small<sub>i</sub> is a term that is small compared to  $p_i$  for i = D - 1 or D).

Thus, 
$$\sum_{\ell \in [k]} d_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot d_{2j}^{\ell} = \left\langle \left( \sum_{\ell \in [k]} \mathbf{h}_{1i}^{\ell} \otimes \mathbf{h}_{2j}^{\ell} \right), \ \mathbf{s} \right\rangle + p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_{D} + \mathsf{small}_{D-1}.$$
 (6.2)

<span id="page-22-0"></span>Fig. 6.1. Computing encoding of noise term as polynomial of encodings in the new construction of Section 6.

2. The decryption equation is:

$$b_{\mathbf{v}} - \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{\scriptscriptstyle T}} \mathbf{c} = (\mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{\scriptscriptstyle T}} \mathbf{b} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{\mathsf{\scriptscriptstyle T}} \mathbf{d}^{\times}) - \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{\scriptscriptstyle T}} \mathbf{c}$$

3. Recall that  $\mathbf{b} = \mathbf{A} \cdot \mathbf{s} + p_{D-1} \cdot \boldsymbol{\eta} + \mathbf{z} \in R_{n_D}^w$ . Hence,

$$\mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{b} = \mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{A} \cdot \mathbf{s} + p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_D + \mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{z}$$

4. Let  $\mathbf{H}_{ij}^{\times} = \left(\sum_{\ell \in [k]} \mathbf{h}_{1i}^{\ell} \otimes \mathbf{h}_{2j}^{\ell}\right)$  be the  $(i,j)^{th}$  row of  $\mathbf{H}^{\times} \in R_{p_D}^{L \times \kappa^2}$ . We show in Figure 6.1 that

$$\mathbf{d}^{\times} = \mathbf{H}^{\times} \mathbf{s} + p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_D + \mathsf{small}_{D-1}.$$

Since  $\mathbf{v}^{\times} \in \mathbb{R}^{L}$  is small compared to  $p_{D-1}$ , we finally have

$$(\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{d}^{\times} = (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{H}^{\times}\mathbf{s} + p_{D-1}\cdot\mathsf{small}_D + \mathsf{small}_{D-1}$$

Hence we have

$$\mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{b} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{d}^{\times} = (\mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{A} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{H}^{\times})\mathbf{s} + p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_{D} + \mathsf{small}_{D-1} + \mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{z}$$

5. Next, note that

$$\mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{W} = \mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{A} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{\mathsf{T}}\mathbf{H}^{\times} + p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_{D-1} + \mathsf{small}_{D-1} \in R_{p_D}^{1 \times \kappa^2}$$

6. Recall that  $\mathbf{c} = \mathbf{W} \cdot \mathbf{s} + p_{D-1} \cdot \boldsymbol{\nu}$  hence,

$$\begin{split} \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{c} &= (\mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{W}) \mathbf{s} + p_{D-1} \cdot \langle \boldsymbol{\nu}, \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}} \rangle \\ &= (\mathbf{v}^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{A} + (\mathbf{v}^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{X}})^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{H}^{\scriptscriptstyle\mathsf{X}}) \; \mathbf{s} + \mathsf{small}_{D-1} + p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_{D} \end{split}$$

7. Hence,  $b_{\mathbf{v}} - \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{c} = \mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{z} + \mathsf{small}_{D-1} + p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_{D}$ . The right hand side of this equation is smaller than  $p_D$  by assumption (if the parameters are carefully chosen), hence, by computing  $b_{\mathbf{v}} - \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{c}$  in  $R_{p_D}$ , we recover  $\mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{z} + \mathsf{small}_{D-1} + p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_{D}$  over R. Now, reducing this term modulo  $p_{D-1}$  leads to  $\mathbf{v}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{z} + \mathsf{small}_{D-1}$  mod  $p_{D-1}$ , where  $\mathsf{small}_{D-1}$  is small compared to  $p_{D-1}$ .

On the degree of the noise term. As was already observed in Agrawal's original construction [2], the construction above is described with a noise term of degree d=2, but it could easily be generalized to any constant degree d. In the case of a general degree d, we would have d-tuples of encodings  $(d_{1i}^\ell, \cdots, d_{di}^\ell)$ , where the noise in  $d_{\delta i}^\ell$  is a multiple of  $\prod_{\gamma \neq \delta} g_{\gamma}^\ell$ . Then, when computing  $\mathbf{d}^{\times}$ , one would consider all possible products  $d_{1i_1}^{\ell} \cdots d_{d,i_d}^{\ell}$  and obtain a noise term of degree d. Please see Appendix A for details. For simplicity, we described above the variant with d=2, but we show in Section 7 that for security we need  $d \geq 3$ .

## <span id="page-23-0"></span>7 Discussion on the security of the scheme of Section 6

In this section we discuss potential attacks on the new NLinFE construction of Section 6. In particular, we generalize the multiciphertext attack and show that this attack do not seem to threaten the security of our new scheme. We also discuss other potential attacks and explain why we did not manage to use them to break our new NLinFE construction. Finally, we conclude by providing a set of parameters for which we believe that our construction is secure, even against quantum attackers.

#### <span id="page-24-0"></span>7.1 NTRU attacks

First, we observe that our NLinFE construction is at most as secure as the NTRU problem. Indeed, let us look at a ciphertext element

$$d_{1i}^{\ell} = \langle \mathbf{h}_{1i}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{1} \rangle + p_{D-1} \cdot e_{1i}^{\ell} + \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell} = \frac{\langle \mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{1} \rangle + g_{1}^{\ell}(p_{D-1} \cdot e_{1i}^{\ell} + \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell})}{g_{1}^{\ell}} \in R_{p_{D}}.$$

This element is of the form  $\widetilde{f}/g_1^\ell \mod p_D$  for some  $\widetilde{f}$  and  $g_1^\ell$  which are small compared to the modulus  $p_D$ . Hence, if one could solve the NTRU problem, then one would recover  $\widetilde{f}$  and  $g_1^\ell$  and could use  $g_1^\ell$  to break the scheme.

On the positive side, the NTRU problem is currently considered to be hard to solve (even with a quantum computer), as long as the modulus  $p_D$  is not too large. When the modulus is large, we are in a regime called "overstretched NTRU", where some algorithms [7, 29, 41] can be used to recover multiples of  $\tilde{f}$  and  $g_1^{\ell}$  in R.

What can we do if we recover a multiple of  $\tilde{f}$  and  $g_1^\ell$ ? Let us first show that we cannot afford to be in a regime where the overstretched algorithms apply. Indeed, if we were in such a regime, then, using for instance [41], an attacker would be able to recover  $r\tilde{f}$  and  $rg_1^\ell \in R$ , for some ring element  $r \in R$ . Given these two elements, the attacker could then recover the ideal  $(r) = (r\tilde{f}, rg_1^\ell)$  (this will be true if  $(\tilde{f})$  and  $(g_1^\ell)$  are coprime, which should be the case with high probability). Given the ideal (r), one could then recover the ideal  $(g_1^\ell) = (rg_1^\ell) \cdot (r)^{-1}$ . Finally, since  $g_1^\ell$  is sampled according to a Gaussian distribution, given  $(g_1^\ell)$ , one can recover  $g_1^\ell$  in quantum polynomial time [33]. Hence, if we want our construction to be post-quantum, we should choose our modulus  $p_D$  small enough so that the overstretched NTRU attacks do not apply.

Preventing overstretched NTRU attacks. All the overstretched NTRU algorithms [7, 29, 41] have a worst case complexity growing faster than  $2^{\Omega(n/(\log q)^2)}$ . Hence, we can avoid these attacks by ensuring that  $n/(\log q)^2$  is significantly larger than the security parameter  $\kappa$ , which gives us the following constraint on the parameters:

$$n \gg \kappa \cdot (\log q)^2$$
.

If we choose our parameters satisfying the above constraint, then our scheme should not be subject to the overstretched NTRU attacks.

Learning NTRU. Finally, let us conclude by observing that our encodings are potentially weaker than usual NTRU instances, as we can get multiple encodings sharing the same denominator. This is related to a problem called the NTRU learning problem by Peikert in [52, 4.4.4].

**Definition 7.1 (NTRU Learning Problem).** Given a distribution  $\chi$  on R (where the output of  $\chi$  is small compared to q) and an invertible  $g \in R_q^*$  sampled from  $\chi$  (and resampled until it is invertible), define  $N_{g,\chi}$  to be the distribution that outputs f/g where  $f \leftarrow \chi$ . The NTRU learning problem is: given independent samples  $h_i \in R_q$  where every sample is distributed according to either  $N_{g,\chi}$  for some randomly chosen invertible  $g \leftarrow \chi$  (fixed for all samples), or the uniform distribution, distinguish which is the case with non-negligible advantage.

This problem is at most as hard as the usual NTRU problem, where the denominator is fresh for every sample, but it is not currently known whether there exists significantly better attacks against the NTRU learning problem than against the usual NTRU problem. In particular, the NTRU learning problem appears very naturally in the GGH13 construction of multilinear maps [35], but, to the best of our knowledge, none of the known attacks against GGH13 are able to exploit the above problem (at least when we are not in an overstretched regime, as discussed above). The fact that the GGH13 map is still not fully broken may be the best evidence that this problem is hard.

### <span id="page-25-0"></span>7.2 Generalizing Multiple Ciphertext Attack

In this section, we present a generalization of the multi-ciphertexts attack of Section 4 to the new setting of Section 6. Our generalization only works for a certain choice of parameters and so can be prevented by carefully choosing the parameters (see Section 7.7). As before, we begin by defining a new problem, related to the Module-LWE problem, but with a noise term correlated to the random Module-LWE labels.

**Definition 7.2.** (Module-LWE with correlated noise). Let  $R = \mathbf{Z}[X]/(X^n + 1)$  for n a power of two. Let  $m, k, \kappa, q \in \mathbb{Z}_{>0}$  and  $\sigma \in \mathbb{R}_{>0}$  be some parameters (q will be the modulus, m the number of samples,  $\kappa$  the dimension of the vectors and  $\sigma$  the standard deviation of a small Gaussian distribution). We let  $\mathcal{D}(\Lambda)$  be the discrete Gaussian distribution with parameter  $\sigma$  over some lattice  $\Lambda$ , and we simplify  $\mathcal{D}(R)$  into  $\mathcal{D}$ . The Module-LWE problem with correlated noise is to distinguish between

$$\left(\langle \mathbf{f}_{1i}, \mathbf{t}_{1}[j] \rangle \cdot g_{1}^{-1} + \xi_{1i}[j] \cdot g_{2} \bmod q , \langle \mathbf{f}_{2i}, \mathbf{t}_{2}[j] \rangle \cdot g_{2}^{-1} + \xi_{2i}[j] \cdot g_{1} \bmod q \right)_{\substack{1 \leq i \leq k \\ 1 \leq j \leq m}}$$

and

$$(u_{1i}[j], u_{2i}[j])_{\substack{1 \le i \le k \\ 1 \le j \le m}},$$

where:

```
-g_{1},g_{2} \leftarrow \mathcal{D};
-\mathbf{f}_{1i},\mathbf{f}_{2i} \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^{\kappa} \text{ for all } 1 \leq i \leq k;
-\mathbf{t}_{1}[j],\mathbf{t}_{2}[j] \leftarrow \mathcal{D}^{\kappa} \text{ for all } 1 \leq j \leq m;
-g_{2} \cdot \xi_{1i}[j] \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(g_{2} \cdot R) \text{ and } g_{1} \cdot \xi_{2i}[j] \leftarrow \mathcal{D}(g_{1} \cdot R) \text{ for all } 1 \leq i \leq k \text{ and } 1 \leq j \leq m;
-u_{1i}[j],u_{2i}[j] \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} R_{q} \text{ for all } 1 \leq i \leq k \text{ and } 1 \leq j \leq m.
```

The next lemma generalizes the attacks described in Section 4 and explains how one can solve the Module-LWE problem with correlated noise if the modulus q is large enough compared to  $\sigma$ .

**Lemma 7.3.** Assume that  $k, m \geq 2\kappa$ ,  $\sigma \geq 1$  and that the modulus q is a prime integer congruent to 1 modulo 2n such that  $q \gg 2^{2\kappa} \cdot (2\kappa)! \cdot (\sqrt{n}\sigma)^{2\kappa}$ . Let  $(b_{1i}[j], b_{2i}[j])_{1 \leq i,j \leq 2\kappa}$  be obtained from either the Module-LWE distribution with correlated noise or the uniform distribution over  $R_q$ . Let us define  $\mathbf{M}_1$  to be the  $2\kappa \times 2\kappa$  matrix whose coefficients are the  $b_{1i}[j]$ 's (i.e.  $\mathbf{M}_1 = (b_{1i}[j])_{i,j}$ ) and  $\mathbf{M}_2$  to be the  $2\kappa \times 2\kappa$  matrix whose coefficients are the  $b_{2i}[j]$ 's.

If the  $b_{\beta i}[j]$  come from the uniform distribution, then  $\|\det(\mathbf{M}_1) \cdot \det(\mathbf{M}_2)\|_{\infty} \ge q/4$  with high probability. Otherwise,  $\|\det(\mathbf{M}_1) \cdot \det(\mathbf{M}_2)\|_{\infty}$  is small compared to q.

**Proof.** First, we note that the case where the  $b_{\beta i}[j]$  are uniform is similar to what we did in the proof of Lemma 4.3. The only difference is that the matrices now have dimension  $2\kappa \times 2\kappa$  instead of  $2\times 2$ , but the dimension of the matrices was never used in the proof. The only important property we used was that n/q tends to 0, which is still the case here by our choices of n and q. Hence, we refer the reader to the corresponding part of the proof of Lemma 4.3 for the uniform case.

Let us now assume that the  $b_{\beta i}[j]$  come from the Module-LWE distribution with correlated noise. We are going to show that  $\det(\mathbf{M}_1) = \xi_1 \cdot g_2^{\kappa}/g_1^{\kappa} \mod q$ , with  $\xi_1 \in R$  small compared to q. Then, by symmetry, we will have that  $\det(\mathbf{M}_2) = \xi_2 \cdot g_1^{\kappa}/g_2^{\kappa} \mod q$ , with  $\xi_2 \in R$  small compared to q. So by taking the product, the  $g_1$  and  $g_2$  disappear and we obtain a product of two quantities that are small compared to q, hence  $\det(\mathbf{M}_1) \cdot \det(\mathbf{M}_2)$  is small compared to q.

Let us call F the  $2\kappa \times \kappa$  matrix whose rows are the  $\mathbf{f}_{1i}$  vectors (for  $1 \leq i \leq 2\kappa$ ) and T the  $\kappa \times 2\kappa$  matrix whose columns are the  $\mathbf{t}_1[j]$  vectors (for  $1 \leq j \leq 2\kappa$ ). Then, the matrix FT is of dimension  $2\kappa \times 2\kappa$  and has rank at most  $\kappa$ . Moreover, if we denote by E the  $2\kappa \times 2\kappa$  matrix  $E = (\xi_{1i}[j])_{i,j}$ , we have that  $\mathbf{M}_1 = g_1^{-1}FT + g_2E$ . We observe that the coefficients of the matrices F, T and E are all small compared to g.

We will now use the linearity of the determinant, with respect to the columns of the matrix, to compute the determinant of  $\mathbf{M}_1$ . To simplify notations, let us define  $\mathbf{M}_{1,0} = g_1^{-1}FT$  and  $\mathbf{M}_{1,1} = g_2E$ . And let us write  $(\mathbf{M}_{1,0})_j$  and  $(\mathbf{M}_{1,1})_j$  the columns of these two matrices (for  $1 \leq j \leq 2\kappa$ ). By linearity of the determinant, we have the following equations

$$\begin{aligned} \det(\mathbf{M}_{1}) &= \det((\mathbf{M}_{1})_{1}, \dots, (\mathbf{M}_{1})_{2\kappa}) \\ &= \det((\mathbf{M}_{1,0})_{1} + (\mathbf{M}_{1,1})_{1}, \dots, (\mathbf{M}_{1,0})_{2\kappa} + (\mathbf{M}_{1,1})_{2\kappa}) \\ &= \sum_{b_{1}, \dots, b_{2\kappa} \in \{0,1\}} \det((\mathbf{M}_{1,b_{1}})_{1}, \dots, (\mathbf{M}_{1,b_{2\kappa}})_{2\kappa}). \end{aligned}$$

Let us then consider the different determinants  $\det\left((\mathbf{M}_{1,b_1})_1,\ldots,(\mathbf{M}_{1,b_{2\kappa}})_{2\kappa}\right)$ , for some  $(b_1,\ldots,b_{2\kappa})\in\{0,1\}^{2\kappa}$ . Recall that the matrix FG (and hence the matrix  $\mathbf{M}_{1,0}$ ) has rank at most  $\kappa$ . So any determinant containing more than  $\kappa$  columns of this matrix will be zero. It is then sufficient to consider determinants with  $(b_1,\ldots,b_{2\kappa})$  satisfying  $\sum_i b_i \geq \kappa$  (all the other ones are zero). But now, these determinants contain  $\leq \kappa$  columns of  $g_1^{-1}FT$  and  $\geq \kappa$  columns of  $g_2E$ . So, again by linearity, they can be written as  $g_1^{-\kappa}g_2^{\kappa}\det(u_1,\ldots,u_{2\kappa})$  where the vectors  $u_j$  have small coefficients (bounded in Euclidean norm by  $\sqrt{n}\sigma$  with overwhelming probability). We can bound the determinant of the  $u_i$ 's by  $(2\kappa)! \cdot (\sqrt{n}\sigma)^{2\kappa}$ . We finally obtain that  $\det(\mathbf{M}_1) = (g_2/g_1)^{\kappa} \cdot \xi_1$  for some  $\xi_1 \leq 2^{2\kappa} \cdot (2\kappa)! \cdot (\sqrt{n}\sigma)^{2\kappa}$ . This is small compared to q by assumption, which concludes the proof.

#### 7.3 On the Need to Request many Ciphertexts for Attack

In this section, we consider a simplified setting and argue that in order to attack this setting, we need to query a lot of ciphertexts (i.e., the old correlated noise attack requiring only 2 ciphertexts should not be possible anymore). In our simplified setting, we assume that the ciphertexts are output without their noise term, i.e., a ciphertext element is of the form

$$\left\{\frac{\langle \mathbf{f}_{\iota}, \mathbf{t}[j] \rangle}{g} \bmod q \right\}_{\iota \in [rk]},$$

where  $\mathbf{f}_{\iota}$ ,  $\mathbf{t}[j]$  and g are small modulo q and the vectors  $\mathbf{f}_{\iota}$  and  $\mathbf{t}[j]$  have dimension  $\kappa$ . Here, the variable  $\iota$  stands for the couple of variables  $(i, \ell)$ , and lives in [rk]. Recall that the  $\mathbf{f}_{\iota}$  are fixed and that  $\mathbf{t}[j]$  changes with the ciphertext.

Claim. Assume that the NTRU learning problem is hard. Then, to distinguish elements of the form  $\langle \mathbf{f}_{\iota}, \mathbf{t}[j] \rangle / g \mod q$  from uniform elements in  $R_q$ , an attacker must query at least  $\kappa + 1$  different j's (i.e., at least  $\kappa + 1$  different ciphertexts).

**Proof.** Let us assume by contradiction that the adversary queried only  $\kappa$  different ciphertexts. Hence, she has got values  $b_{i,j} = \langle \mathbf{f}_{\iota}, \mathbf{t}[j] \rangle / g \mod q$  for  $\iota \in [rk]$  and  $j \in [\kappa]$ . Let us consider the matrix  $\mathbf{B} = (b_{i,j})_{i,j} \in R_q^{(rk) \times \kappa}$ . Using the structure of the  $b_{i,j}$ 's, one can write  $\mathbf{B}$  as a product of two matrices  $\mathbf{B} = \mathbf{F} \cdot \mathbf{T}$ , where the rows of  $\mathbf{F}$  are the  $\mathbf{f}_{\iota}/g \mod q$  and the columns of  $\mathbf{T}$  are the  $\mathbf{t}[j]$ 's.

The matrix  $\mathbf{F}$  has dimension  $(rk) \times \kappa$  and by the NTRU learning assumption is indistinguishable from uniform over  $R_q^{(rk) \times \kappa}$ . The matrix  $\mathbf{T}$  is of dimension  $\kappa \times \kappa$  and is invertible modulo q with overwhelming probability. Moreover, the matrix  $\mathbf{T}$  is independent from the matrix  $\mathbf{F}$ . Hence, we conclude that conditioned on  $\mathbf{T}$  being invertible (which happens with overwhelming probability), the matrix  $\mathbf{B} = \mathbf{F} \cdot \mathbf{T}$  is indistinguishable from uniform over  $R_q^{(rk) \times \kappa}$  (under the NTRU learning assumption).

We conclude that in our simplified setting, an attacker should query at least  $\kappa+1$  ciphertexts to distinguish the ciphertext elements from uniform. We note however that this is only a simplified setting, where the attacker tries to attack the scheme using only the (simplified) MLWE with correlated noise elements (as was the case in the attack of Section 4). It could be that by using the non simplified MLWE with correlated noise elements, or other elements provided by the NLinFE scheme, an attacker could break it using less than  $\kappa+1$  ciphertexts.

#### 7.4 Exploiting the new noise terms

In this section, we describe the new noise terms obtained when decrypting a message in the NLinFE scheme of Section 6. We observe that this noise term is now of degree 2 (or even d if we extend the scheme), and so seems difficult to exploit for an attack.

Writing down all the details, we can see that the ring element obtained after a decryption is of the form

$$\begin{split} b_{\mathbf{v}} - \mathbf{k}_{\mathbf{v}}^{\mathsf{T}} \mathbf{c} &= \mathbf{v}^{T} \mathbf{z} + p_{D-1} \mathbf{v}^{T} \boldsymbol{\eta} - p_{D-1} (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \boldsymbol{\Delta} \mathbf{s} - (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \widetilde{\boldsymbol{\Delta}} \mathbf{s} - p_{D-1} (\mathbf{v}^{T} \mathbf{E} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \mathbf{E}^{\times}) \boldsymbol{\nu} \\ &+ \sum_{\ell,i,j} v_{ij}^{\times} \ \left[ p_{D-1} \cdot \left( p_{D-1} \cdot (g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \boldsymbol{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \boldsymbol{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell}) + (g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\boldsymbol{\xi}}_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \boldsymbol{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} + g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \boldsymbol{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\boldsymbol{\xi}}_{2j}^{\ell} \right) \\ &+ \left( \langle \mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{1} \rangle \cdot \boldsymbol{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} + \langle \mathbf{f}_{2j}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{2} \rangle \cdot \boldsymbol{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} ) \right) \\ &+ \left( (g_{2}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\boldsymbol{\xi}}_{1i}^{\ell} \cdot g_{1}^{\ell} \cdot \tilde{\boldsymbol{\xi}}_{2j}^{\ell}) + (\langle \mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{1} \rangle \cdot \tilde{\boldsymbol{\xi}}_{2j}^{\ell} + \langle \mathbf{f}_{2j}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{2} \rangle \cdot \tilde{\boldsymbol{\xi}}_{1i}^{\ell} ) \right) \right], \end{split}$$

where  $\Delta$  and  $\widetilde{\Delta}$  are the  $L \times \kappa^2$  matrices whose rows are respectively the  $\Delta_{ij}$  and  $\widetilde{\Delta}_{ij}$ .

Now, if we want to split this noise term using the moduli, we only have multiples of 1,  $p_{D-1}$  or  $p_{D-1}^2$ . Hence, we can obtain the three following noise terms

<span id="page-27-0"></span>
$$\sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{i,j} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} \right) g_{2}^{\ell} g_{1}^{\ell} + \sum_{i,j,\ell} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \left( \langle \mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}, \mathbf{t}_{1} \rangle \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} + \langle \mathbf{f}_{2j}^{\ell}, \mathbf{t}_{2} \rangle \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \right) + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \widetilde{\Delta} \mathbf{s} + (0 \text{ or } \mu)$$
(7.1)

$$\sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{i,j} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot (\tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \xi_{2j}^{\ell} + \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \xi_{2j}^{\ell}) \right) g_{2}^{\ell} g_{1}^{\ell} + \sum_{i,j,\ell} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \left( \langle \mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{1} \rangle \cdot \xi_{2j}^{\ell} + \langle \mathbf{f}_{2j}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{2} \rangle \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \right)$$

$$+ (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \Delta \mathbf{s} + \mathbf{v}^{T} \boldsymbol{\eta} + (\mathbf{v}^{T} \mathbf{E} + (\mathbf{v}^{\times})^{T} \mathbf{E}^{\times}) \boldsymbol{\nu}$$

$$(7.2)$$

<span id="page-28-0"></span>
$$\sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{i,j} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \xi_{1i}^{\ell} \xi_{2j}^{\ell} \right) g_2^{\ell} g_1^{\ell} \tag{7.3}$$

Compared to the noise terms (5.1), (5.2), (5.3), (5.4) and (5.5) that we obtained with Agrawal's original construction, we can observe two differences. The first one is that we now have terms of the form  $\langle \mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}, \mathbf{t}_1 \rangle$ , with vectors  $\mathbf{f}_{1i}^{\ell}$  and  $\mathbf{t}_1$  when in the previous noise terms these were simply scalar products between two ring elements. Recall that we introduced these vectors to prevent commutativity of the ciphertexts and the multi-ciphertexts attack. In the context of the rank attack however, this does not prevent the attack: if this was the only difference with the original construction, we could perform the rank attack against the new construction.

There is however a second difference, which is the fact that we are only able to split the noise term into three parts instead of five, since we have only one modulus left. This is the difference that matters here to prevent the rank attack.

What makes a noise term good? Let us start by having a look at the noise terms of the original construction. We have seen that (5.4) was problematic as it allowed to mount the rank attack. Noise term (5.5) is quite similar to (5.4) and is potentially also a problematic noise term. Th reason why these two noise terms are problematic is that they are linear in the secret key and in the ciphertext. The three other noise terms however seem less problematic as they are not linear but quadratic in the ciphertext elements. Let us have a look at noise term (5.1).

$$\sum_{\ell} \left( \sum_{i,j} \mathbf{v}_{ij}^{\times} \cdot \tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell} \tilde{\xi}_{2j}^{\ell} \right) g_2^{\ell} g_1^{\ell} \tag{5.1}$$

We observe that because of the sum over  $\ell$ , the noise term obtained in (5.1) lives in R, and not in the ideal  $g_1g_2$  (which would be the case if we had only one possible value for  $\ell$ ). Thanks to this sum, it seems that it would be hard for an attacker to exploit the algebraic properties of this noise term. Let us then rewrite (5.1) in a more convenient way. Recall that  $\tilde{\xi}_{1i}^{\ell}g_2^{\ell} = \tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell}$  and  $\tilde{\xi}_{2i}^{\ell}g_1^{\ell} = \tilde{e}_{2i}^{\ell}$ . Letting  $\tilde{\mathbf{e}}_1^{\ell}$  and  $\tilde{\mathbf{e}}_2^{\ell}$  denote the vectors  $(\tilde{e}_{1i}^{\ell})_i$  and  $(\tilde{e}_{2i}^{\ell})_i$  respectively, and  $\mathbf{V}^{\times}$  denote the matrix  $(v_{ij})_{i,j} \in R^{r \times r}$ , the noise term (5.1) can be rewritten as

$$\sum_{\ell} (\tilde{\mathbf{e}}_1^{\ell})^T \cdot \mathbf{V}^{\times} \cdot \tilde{\mathbf{e}}_2^{\ell}.$$

Recall that  $\mathbf{V}^{\times}$  is known, hence we obtain a degree 2 equation into the unknown  $\tilde{\mathbf{e}}_{1}^{\ell}$  and  $\tilde{\mathbf{e}}_{2}^{\ell}$ . We can obtain multiple such equations, for randomly chosen matrices  $\mathbf{V}^{\times}$  by varying the secret key. If we could request for  $k \cdot r^{2}$  secret keys, then we could linearize the equation above (r) is the size of the vectors  $\tilde{\mathbf{e}}_{\beta}^{\ell}$  and k is the number of different  $\ell$ 's) and recover the values of the noise terms, which would imply a break of the NLinFE scheme. Hence, the number of secret keys that the attacker is

allowed to query should be smaller than  $k \cdot r^2$ , or  $k \cdot r^d$  in general if the degree of the noise terms is d. This gives us a constraint on the parameters of our NLinFE scheme, but this constraint is compatible with the lower bound on N that is needed to imply iO, so we simply need to take care of this potential attack when instantiating the parameters of the scheme (see Section 7.7).

One could also solve the above system without linearizing it, by using convex optimization techniques like in [15]. This can be done using only  $(k \cdot n)^{1+\varepsilon}$  secret keys. However, this algorithm does not generalize easily when using polynomials of degree higher than 2, hence it seems that modifying the NLinFE construction to use polynomials of degree 3 or more should prevent this attack.

To conclude, recovering the noise terms  $\tilde{e}_{\beta i}^{\ell}$  from Equation (5.1) seems as hard as solving a system of polynomial equations of degree d over R in kr variables (with  $kr^d$  different monomials), which is currently believed to be hard to do when d is a constant larger than 3 and when the number of equations is smaller than  $kr^d$ . We note however that in the discussion above, we did not take into account the fact that all the noise terms  $\tilde{e}_{\beta i}^{\ell}$  for a fixed  $\ell$  are multiple of the same element  $g_{1-\beta}^{\ell}$ . We do not know if this extra property can be used to help the attacker solve the system of equations (or at least recover some of the secret parameters).

The noise terms (5.2) and (5.3) are very similar to (5.1), hence it seems that they should also not be problematic for the security of the NLinFE construction.

Back to the new construction. Going back to our new NLinFE construction, one can see that we have grouped noise terms (5.2) and (5.4) (respectively (5.3) and (5.5)) into the new noise term (7.1) (respectively (7.2)). Hence, the two problematic noise terms (5.4) and (5.5) that were only linear in the  $\xi$  noise terms are now summed with good noise terms, where the dependency in the  $\xi$ 's is quadratic. Since we have seen that these quadratic noise terms (or degree d noise terms when considering extension of the scheme) seem hard to distinguish from uniform, then it seems that the noise terms that can be obtained in the new NLinFE scheme should also be hard to distinguish from uniform.

#### <span id="page-29-0"></span>7.5 Exploiting other elements

In this section, we consider other elements of the ciphertexts and of the secret keys that have not been considered before, and conclude that these elements does not seem to be dangerous for the security of the NLinFE scheme.

Exploiting the **c** and **b** elements of the ciphertexts. One might want to exploit the fact that, in the **c** and **b** elements of a ciphertext, the noise is a multiple of  $p_{D-1}$ . If  $p_{D-1}$  divided  $p_D$ , then we could reduce **b** and **c** modulo  $p_{D-1}$  to recover  $\mathbf{W}\mathbf{s} \mod p_{D-1}$  and  $\mathbf{A}\mathbf{s} \mod p_{D-1}$ . With enough such vectors we could recover the matrix  $\mathbf{A}\mathbf{W}^{-1} \mod p_{D-1} = E^T \mod p_{D-1}$ . If E was smaller that  $p_{D-1}$  we could even recover it exactly. As said above, this however requires that  $p_{D-1}$  divides  $p_D$ , which is not the case is our scheme. These techniques could also be adapted if  $\gcd(p_{D-1}, p_D)$  was larger than E, however, it seems that taking  $p_{D-1}$  and  $p_D$  prime should avoid such attacks. Moreover, this part is identical to provably secure schemes from [3, 5] so it should not be a problem by itself.

Exploiting the structure of the secret keys. Recall that the secret keys are of the form  $(\mathbf{k_v}, \mathbf{v}, \mathbf{v}^{\times})$ , where  $\mathbf{k_v} = \mathbf{E} \cdot \mathbf{v} + \mathbf{E}^{\times} \cdot \mathbf{v}^{\times} \in R^m$ . Every secret key hence gives us a known linear combination of  $\mathbf{E}$  and  $\mathbf{E}^{\times}$  (where 'known' means that we know  $\mathbf{v}$  and  $\mathbf{v}^{\times}$ ). If the number of secret key queries N

is larger than the dimension of the vectors  $(\mathbf{v}, \mathbf{v}^{\times}) \in R^{w+w^d}$ , then an attacker querying N secret keys could recover the matrices E and  $E^{\times}$  and break the scheme. We should hence ensure that  $N < w + w^d$ .

This may be viewed as secret keys in the inner product functional encryption (IPFE) scheme of [3], where the master secret key is  $[\mathbf{E} || \mathbf{E}^{\times}]$  and the function keys correspond to vectors  $(\mathbf{v} || \mathbf{v}^{\times})$ . The security of the IPFE scheme relies on the fact that the admissible adversary may not request more than w linearly independent keys, where w is the dimension of the message and function vectors.

We mimic this intuition to the high (constant) degree setting by stretching the MSK to have large enough dimension – in particular,  $[\mathbf{E} || \mathbf{E}^{\times}] \in R^{w \times w^d}$  where d is the degree of the polynomial used to compute the noise term of NLinFE. In more detail, let us say that the noise term added to the decryption equation of NLinFE is computed via a degree d polynomial on input  $\beta \in R^w$  (say). Let us express by  $\mathsf{Mnml}(\beta) \in R^{w^d}$  the vector of all degree d monomials of  $\beta$ . The noise term may then be expressed as  $\langle \mathbf{v}^{\times}, \mathsf{Mnml}(\beta) \rangle$ . The coefficient vector  $\mathbf{v}^{\times} \in R^{w^d}$  is thus used to compute the noise term as an inner product of monomials in the PRG seed.

We note that if the matrix  $\mathbf{E}^{\times}$  were sampled independently from a discrete Gaussian similarly to matrix  $\mathbf{E}$  during setup, our scheme would be provably secure by following the same argument as [3]. This intuition is formalized in [2]. However in this case, the matrix  $\mathbf{H}^{\times} = \mathbf{E}^{\times^{\mathsf{T}}} \mathbf{W} \in R_q^{w^d \times \kappa^2}$  would be uniform, and the encryptor would be forced to encode noise terms using  $w^d$  samples. This makes the ciphertext non-compact and insufficient for iO. Hence, to overcome this constraint, we choose  $\mathbf{H}^{\times} \in R_q^{w^d \times \kappa^2}$  as a compressible matrix and sample  $\mathbf{E}^{\times}$  to satisfy  $\mathbf{E}^{\times^{\mathsf{T}}} \mathbf{W} = \mathbf{H}^{\times} + \mathsf{small}$ . Thus, any attack against our keys must exploit the fact that  $\mathbf{H}$  is compressible, since the scheme is provably secure when this is not true.

Discussion: On the Inapplicability of the Weak Multilinear Map Model. [51] suggested the so called "weak multilinear map" model as an idealized model that captures all known attacks against GGH13 based iO constructions. This model leverages the fact that all known attacks on the GGH13 encoding scheme share a common property: namely, they all use information leaked during zero testing. Since our construction does not use any multilinear (or even bilinear) maps, the weak multilinear map model is not applicable to our setting.

#### 7.6 On Post Quantum Security.

Many constructions of obfuscators become unsafe if the attacker is allowed to use a quantum computer. This is in particular the case of all constructions using pairings [40, 10], or using the CLT13 multilinear map [30]. Most of the constructions using the GGH13 multilinear map also become insecure in a quantum world [53]. In this paragraph, we consider the post-quantum security of the NLinFE construction described above.

Quantum attacks against cryptographic primitives almost always use Shor's algorithm [55] to either factor, compute a discrete logarithm or find a generator in a principal ideal. None of these operations seems to be of any help to an attacker for our construction. There is no discrete logarithm nor hard factorisation happening in the construction, hence it seems that the first two uses of Shor algorithm would not be useful here. Finding a generator of a principal ideal could be annoying, if we were able to create for instance the ideals  $\langle g_1^\ell \rangle$  or  $\langle g_2^\ell \rangle$ , because then we could recover the secret elements  $g_1^\ell, g_2^\ell$ . However, creating such ideals seems difficult. This is the reason why we have an index  $\ell$  and the evaluation consists in summing over  $\ell$ . This ensures that the noise terms we obtain

after evaluation are always a sum of different multiples of the different  $g_1^{\ell}$  and  $g_2^{\ell}$ . This means that this noise do not belong to one of the ideals  $\langle g_1^{\ell} \rangle$  or  $\langle g_2^{\ell} \rangle$  and so should not leak information about it.

Overall, it seems that none of the attack described above can be significantly improved by the presence of a quantum computer, and that no new attack may be mounted. Hence, we conjecture that the NLinFE construction of Section 6 is post-quantum secure.

### <span id="page-31-0"></span>7.7 Setting the Parameters

Let d be the degree of the noise terms computed by the NLinFE construction (in the description above, we have d=2, but this could be generalized to larger d's). Recall that  $\sigma$  is the standard deviation used in all Gaussian distributions appearing in the construction (used to sample all the 'small' terms) and that N is the maximum number of secret key queries that an admissible attacker is allowed to performed. In light of the different attacks described above, the parameters of the NLinFE scheme should satisfy the following conditions.

- To avoid the overstretched NTRU attacks from Section 7.1, we should take

$$n \gg \kappa \cdot (\log p_D)^2$$
.

- To avoid the attack of Section 7.2 on the RLWE with correlated noise encoding, we should have

$$p_D \le (2\kappa)! \cdot \sigma^{2\kappa}.$$

- To prevent an attacker from recovering the noise terms by linearizing the equations obtained by decryption or using more evolved convex optimization techniques (similar to [15]), we should have

$$N < kr^d$$
 and  $d \ge 3$ .

- To prevent an attacker from recovering E and  $E^{\times}$  from the secret keys (Section 7.5), one should take

$$N < w + w^d$$
.

- Recall also that to prevent statistical attacks as discussed in [2], one should take

$$\sigma/B_1 \geq 2^{\kappa}$$
,

where  $B_1$  is the bound on the difference  $|\langle \mathbf{v}_i, \mathbf{z}_0 - \mathbf{z}_1 \rangle| \leq B_1$  allowed for admissible adversaries, and  $\kappa$  is the security parameter.

We also have the following constraints on the parameters, appearing for correctness of the scheme.

– For the trapdoor sampling (see Section 2.2) of the matrix  $W \in R_{p_D}^{m \times \kappa^d}$  we need

$$\sigma \ge \sqrt{\kappa^d \cdot \log p_D}$$
 and  $m \ge \kappa^d \cdot \log p_D$ .

– To ensure that the  $p_{D-1} \cdot \mathsf{small}_D$  terms are smaller than  $p_D$  and that the  $\mathsf{small}_{D-1}$  terms are smaller than  $p_{D-1}$ , we need

$$p_{D-1} \ge \sigma^{2d}$$
 and  $p_D \ge \sigma^{2d} \cdot p_{D-1}^2$ .

Finally, we want that our choice of parameters enables the bootstrapping of [\[2\]](#page-32-0) to imply iO. For this, the only constraint is that the size of the ciphertexts should be sublinear in the number N of key requests. In other words, it should exist ε > 0 such that

$$N^{1-\varepsilon} \ge \log(p_D) \cdot n \cdot (m+w+drk).$$

Overall, one can choose the parameters in the following way (remember that the moduli pD−<sup>1</sup> and p<sup>D</sup> are chosen to be prime):

```
– κ is the security parameter and B1 = poly(κ) ≥ 1 is given as input
– d = 3
– σ = 2κ
         · B1
– pD−1 = Θ(σ
              6
               ) and pD = Θ(σ
                                 18) (chosen to be prime)
– m = κ
        3
          · log pD and w = κ
                               4
– n = Θ(κ
          3.5
             ) (chosen to be a power of two)
– k = κ and r = κ
                     3
– N = κ
        9
```

Remark 7.4. These parameters have been slightly updated since the published version [\[4\]](#page-32-8). The correct ones are the ones in this article, the other ones (in the published version) being subject to the overstretched NTRU attacks.

Acknowledgments. The first author is supported by the DST "Swarnajayanti" fellowship, an Indo-French CEFIPRA project and an "Indo-Israel" ISF-UGC project. The second author is supported in part by CyberSecurity Research Flanders with reference number VR20192203 and by the Research Council KU Leuven grant C14/18/067 on Cryptanalysis of post-quantum cryptography.

# References

- <span id="page-32-1"></span>1. M. Abdalla, F. Bourse, A. De Caro, and D. Pointcheval. Simple functional encryption schemes for inner products. In PKC, pages 733–751. Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-32-0"></span>2. S. Agrawal. Indistinguishability obfuscation without multilinear maps: New techniques for bootstrapping and instantiation. In Eurocrypt, 2019.
- <span id="page-32-2"></span>3. S. Agrawal, B. Libert, and D. Stehle. Fully secure functional encryption for linear functions from standard assumptions, and applications. In Crypto, 2016.
- <span id="page-32-8"></span>4. S. Agrawal and A. Pellet-Mary. Indistinguishability obfuscation without maps: Attacks and fixes for noisy linear fe. In Eurocrypt, 2020.
- <span id="page-32-7"></span>5. S. Agrawal and A. Rosen. Functional encryption for bounded collusions, revisited. In TCC, 2017.
- <span id="page-32-4"></span>6. M. Ajtai. Generating hard instances of the short basis problem. In ICALP, volume 1644 of LNCS, pages 1–9. Springer, 1999.
- <span id="page-32-6"></span>7. M. Albrecht, S. Bai, and L. Ducas. A subfield lattice attack on overstretched NTRU assumptions. In Crypto, pages 153–178. Springer, 2016.
- <span id="page-32-5"></span>8. J. Alwen and C. Peikert. Generating shorter bases for hard random lattices. In STACS, pages 75–86, 2009.
- <span id="page-32-3"></span>9. P. Ananth and A. Jain. Indistinguishability obfuscation from compact functional encryption. In CRYPTO, pages 308–326, 2015.

- <span id="page-33-0"></span>10. P. Ananth, A. Jain, H. Lin, C. Matt, and A. Sahai. Indistinguishability obfuscation without multilinear maps: New paradigms via low degree weak pseudorandomness and security amplification. In Crypto, pages 284–332. Springer, 2019.
- <span id="page-33-11"></span>11. D. Apon, N. D¨ottling, S. Garg, and P. Mukherjee. Cryptanalysis of indistinguishability obfuscations of circuits over ggh13. eprint 2016, 2016.
- <span id="page-33-6"></span>12. B. Applebaum and Z. Brakerski. Obfuscating circuits via composite-order graded encoding. In Theory of Cryptography Conference, pages 528–556. Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-16"></span>13. B. Barak, Z. Brakerski, I. Komargodski, and P. Kothari. Limits on low-degree pseudorandom generators (or: Sum-of-squares meets program obfuscation), 2017.
- <span id="page-33-1"></span>14. B. Barak, O. Goldreich, R. Impagliazzo, S. Rudich, A. Sahai, S. Vadhan, and K. Yang. On the (im)possibility of obfuscating programs. In CRYPTO, 2001.
- <span id="page-33-22"></span>15. B. Barak, S. B. Hopkins, A. Jain, P. Kothari, and A. Sahai. Sum-of-squares meets program obfuscation, revisited. In Eurocrypt, pages 226–250. Springer, 2019.
- <span id="page-33-19"></span>16. M. Bardet, J.-C. Faug`ere, and B. Salvy. On the complexity of the f5 gr¨obner basis algorithm. Journal of Symbolic Computation, 70:49–70, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-4"></span>17. N. Bitansky, S. Garg, H. Lin, R. Pass, and S. Telang. Succinct randomized encodings and their applications. In STOC, pages 439–448, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-17"></span>18. N. Bitansky, R. Nishimaki, A. Passel`egue, and D. Wichs. From cryptomania to obfustopia through secret-key functional encryption. In TCC, pages 391–418, 2016.
- <span id="page-33-5"></span>19. N. Bitansky, O. Paneth, and D. Wichs. Perfect structure on the edge of chaos - trapdoor permutations from indistinguishability obfuscation. In TCC, pages 474–502, 2016.
- <span id="page-33-15"></span>20. N. Bitansky and V. Vaikuntanathan. Indistinguishability obfuscation from functional encryption. FOCS, 2015:163, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-18"></span>21. R. P. Brent and B. D. McKay. Determinants and ranks of random matrices over zm. Discrete Mathematics, 66(1-2):35–49, 1987.
- <span id="page-33-3"></span>22. R. Canetti, J. Holmgren, A. Jain, and V. Vaikuntanathan. Succinct garbling and indistinguishability obfuscation for RAM programs. In STOC, pages 429–437, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-2"></span>23. R. Canetti, H. Lin, S. Tessaro, and V. Vaikuntanathan. Obfuscation of probabilistic circuits and applications. In TCC, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-10"></span>24. Y. Chen, C. Gentry, and S. Halevi. Cryptanalyses of candidate branching program obfuscators. In Eurocrypt, pages 278–307. Springer, 2017.
- <span id="page-33-13"></span>25. Y. Chen, V. Vaikuntanathan, and H. Wee. GGH15 beyond permutation branching programs: Proofs, attacks, and candidates. In Crypto. Springer, 2018.
- <span id="page-33-14"></span>26. J. H. Cheon, W. Cho, M. Hhan, J. Kim, and C. Lee. Statistical zeroizing attack: Cryptanalysis of candidates of bp obfuscation over GGH15 multilinear map. In CRYPTO, 2019.
- <span id="page-33-7"></span>27. J.-H. Cheon, K. Han, C. Lee, H. Ryu, and D. Stehl´e. Cryptanalysis of the multilinear map over the integers. In EUROCRYPT. Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-12"></span>28. J. H. Cheon, M. Hhan, J. Kim, and C. Lee. Cryptanalyses of branching program obfuscations over ggh13 multilinear map from the ntru problem. In Crypto, pages 184–210. Springer, 2018.
- <span id="page-33-20"></span>29. J. H. Cheon, J. Jeong, and C. Lee. An algorithm for ntru problems and cryptanalysis of the ggh multilinear map without a low level encoding of zero. LMS Journal of Computation and Mathematics, 19, 2016.
- <span id="page-33-23"></span>30. J. Coron, T. Lepoint, and M. Tibouchi. Practical multilinear maps over the integers. In CRYPTO, pages 476–493, 2013.
- <span id="page-33-8"></span>31. J.-S. Coron, C. Gentry, S. Halevi, T. Lepoint, H. K. Maji, E. Miles, M. Raykova, A. Sahai, and M. Tibouchi. Zeroizing without low-level zeroes: New mmap attacks and their limitations. In CRYPTO, pages 247–266. Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-33-9"></span>32. J.-S. Coron, M. S. Lee, T. Lepoint, and M. Tibouchi. Zeroizing attacks on indistinguishability obfuscation over clt13. Eprint 2016, 2016.
- <span id="page-33-21"></span>33. R. Cramer, L. Ducas, C. Peikert, and O. Regev. Recovering short generators of principal ideals in cyclotomic rings. In EUROCRYPT, 2016.

- <span id="page-34-13"></span>34. L. Ducas and A. Pellet-Mary. On the statistical leak of the GGH13 multilinear map and some variants. In ASIACRYPT. Springer, 2018.
- <span id="page-34-0"></span>35. S. Garg, C. Gentry, and S. Halevi. Candidate multilinear maps from ideal lattices. In EUROCRYPT, 2013.
- <span id="page-34-1"></span>36. S. Garg, C. Gentry, S. Halevi, M. Raykova, A. Sahai, and B. Waters. Candidate indistinguishability obfuscation and functional encryption for all circuits. In FOCS, 2013.
- <span id="page-34-10"></span>37. S. Garg, E. Miles, P. Mukherjee, A. Sahai, A. Srinivasan, and M. Zhandry. Secure obfuscation in a weak multilinear map model. In TCC. Springer, 2016.
- <span id="page-34-16"></span>38. C. Gentry, C. S. Jutla, and D. Kane. Obfuscation using tensor products, 2018.
- <span id="page-34-12"></span>39. Y. Hu and H. Jia. Cryptanalysis of ggh map. In Eurocrypt, pages 537–565. Springer, 2016.
- <span id="page-34-5"></span>40. A. Jain, H. Lin, C. Matt, and A. Sahai. How to leverage hardness of constant-degree expanding polynomials over r to build io. In EUROCRYPT, pages 19–23, 2019.
- <span id="page-34-22"></span>41. P. Kirchner and P.-A. Fouque. Revisiting lattice attacks on overstretched NTRU parameters. In Eurocrypt, pages 3–26. Springer, 2017.
- <span id="page-34-6"></span>42. I. Komargodski, T. Moran, M. Naor, R. Pass, A. Rosen, and E. Yogev. One-way functions and (im)perfect obfuscation. In FOCS, 2014.
- <span id="page-34-8"></span>43. V. Koppula, A. B. Lewko, and B. Waters. Indistinguishability obfuscation for turing machines with unbounded memory. In STOC, pages 419–428, 2015.
- <span id="page-34-3"></span>44. H. Lin. Indistinguishability obfuscation from sxdh on 5-linear maps and locality-5 prgs. In Crypto, 2017.
- <span id="page-34-9"></span>45. H. Lin, R. Pass, K. Seth, and S. Telang. Output-compressing randomized encodings and applications. In TCC, pages 96–124, 2016.
- <span id="page-34-4"></span>46. H. Lin and S. Tessaro. Indistinguishability obfuscation from trilinear maps and block-wise local prgs. In Crypto, 2017.
- <span id="page-34-2"></span>47. H. Lin and V. Vaikuntanathan. Indistinguishability obfuscation from ddh-like assumptions on constantdegree graded encodings. In FOCS, 2016.
- <span id="page-34-17"></span>48. A. Lombardi and V. Vaikuntanathan. On the non-existence of blockwise 2-local prgs with applications to indistinguishability obfuscation. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, <http://eprint.iacr.org/2017/301>, 2017.
- <span id="page-34-20"></span>49. E. W. Mayr. Some complexity results for polynomial ideals. Journal of complexity, 13(3):303–325, 1997.
- <span id="page-34-19"></span>50. D. Micciancio and C. Peikert. Trapdoors for lattices: Simpler, tighter, faster, smaller. In EUROCRYPT, pages 700–718, 2012.
- <span id="page-34-14"></span>51. E. Miles, A. Sahai, and M. Zhandry. Annihilation attacks for multilinear maps: Cryptanalysis of indistinguishability obfuscation over ggh13. In Crypto, 2016.
- <span id="page-34-23"></span>52. C. Peikert. A Decade of Lattice Cryptography, volume 10, pages 283–424. 03 2016.
- <span id="page-34-15"></span>53. A. Pellet-Mary. Quantum attacks against indistinguishablility obfuscators proved secure in the weak multilinear map model. In CRYPTO, pages 153–183, 2018.
- <span id="page-34-7"></span>54. A. Sahai and B. Waters. How to use indistinguishability obfuscation: Deniable encryption, and more. In STOC, 2014.
- <span id="page-34-24"></span>55. P. W. Shor. Polynomial-time algorithms for prime factorization and discrete logarithms on a quantum computer. SIAM review, 41(2):303–332, 1999.
- <span id="page-34-18"></span>56. D. Stehl´e, R. Steinfeld, K. Tanaka, and K. Xagawa. Efficient public key encryption based on ideal lattices. In ASIACRYPT, pages 617–635, 2009.
- <span id="page-34-11"></span>57. J. Zimmerman. How to obfuscate programs directly. In Eurocrypt, pages 439–467. Springer, 2015.

# <span id="page-34-21"></span>A Computing noise terms of larger degree

In this section, we explain how the NLinFE scheme of Section [6](#page-18-0) can be generalized to compute a noise term of degree d instead of 2 (for a constant d). To handle computations of degree d over the ciphertexts, the idea will be to consider d different denominators gδ, and then multiply the noise terms of the RLWE encodings by all the  $g_{\delta}$ 's except the one used in the label. More formally, we will sample dk small elements  $g_{\delta}^{\ell}$  during the setup phase (for  $\delta \in [d]$  and  $\ell \in [k]$ ) and the ciphertexts will be of the form

$$\left\{ d_{\delta,i}^{\ell} = \frac{\langle \mathbf{f}_{\delta,i}^{\ell}, \ \mathbf{t}_{\delta} \rangle}{g_{\delta}^{\ell}} + \prod_{\gamma \neq \delta} g_{\gamma}^{\ell} \cdot \left( p_{D-1} \cdot \xi_{\delta,i}^{\ell} + \tilde{\xi}_{\delta,i}^{\ell} \right) \bmod p_{D} \right\}_{i \in [r], \ell \in [k], \delta \in [d]}.$$

Observe that by taking d=2, we recover exactly the scheme described in Section 6. When d is an arbitrary constant, it holds that for any indices  $\{i_1, \dots, i_d\} \in [r]^d$  we have

$$\prod_{\delta=1}^d d_{\delta,i_\delta}^\ell = \prod_{\delta=1}^d \frac{\langle \mathbf{f}_{\delta,i_\delta}^\ell, \ \mathbf{t}_\delta \rangle}{g_\delta^\ell} + \text{small}.$$

This means that we can now compute polynomials of degree d in the RLWE secrets  $\mathbf{t}_{\delta}$ . The rest of the construction is very similar to what we had in degree 2, except that this is replaced by degree d (for instance, the vector  $\mathbf{v}^{\times}$  now has dimension  $w^d$  instead of  $w^2$ ). Overall, this results in an increase of the ciphertext size, which is now  $\log p_D \cdot n \cdot (m + w + drk)$ .