

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Seamless Post-Quantum Transition: Agile and Efficient Encryption for Data-at-Rest

Stephan Krenn<sup>1</sup> <sup>a</sup> , Thomas Lorunser ¨ 1,2 b , Sebastian Ramacher <sup>1</sup> <sup>c</sup> , and Federico Valbusa <sup>3</sup> <sup>d</sup> <sup>1</sup>*Department of Digital Safety and Security, Austrian Institute of Technology, Vienna, Austria* <sup>2</sup>*Digital Factory Vorarlberg GmbH, Dornbirn, Austria* <sup>3</sup>*PACY Lab @ RI CODE Universitat der Bundeswehr M ¨ unchen, Munich, Germany ¨* {*stephan.krenn, thomas.loruenser, sebastian.ramacher*}*@ait.ac.at, federicovalbusa@gmail.com*

Keywords: Post Quantum Migration, Crypto Agility, Key Encapsulation Mechanism, Authenticated Encryption

Abstract: As quantum computing matures, its impact on traditional cryptographic protocols becomes increasingly critical, especially for data-at-rest scenarios where large data sets remain encrypted for extended periods of time. This paper addresses the pressing need to transition away from pre-quantum algorithms by presenting an agile cryptosystem that securely and efficiently supports post-quantum Key Encapsulation Mechanisms (KEMs). The proposed solution is based on combining a CCA-secure KEM with a robust Authenticated Encryption scheme, allowing only the dynamic component - the symmetric key encapsulation - to be updated when migrating to new cryptographic algorithms. This approach eliminates the need to re-encrypt potentially massive data payloads, resulting in significant savings in computational overhead and bandwidth. We formalize the concept of cryptoagility through an agile-CCA security model, which requires that neither the original ciphertext nor any updated version reveals meaningful information to an attacker. A game-based proof shows that the overall construction remains agile-CCA secure if the underlying KEM and AE are individually CCA secure under a random oracle assumption. The result is a future-proof scheme that eases the transition to postquantum standards, enabling enterprises and cloud storage providers to protect large amounts of data with minimal disruption while proactively mitigating emerging quantum threats.

# 1 INTRODUCTION

The rapid development of quantum computing has posed significant challenges to the field of cryptography, particularly with respect to the security of classical encryption schemes. As quantum algorithms such as Shor's algorithm [\(Shor, 1997\)](#page-9-0) threaten the security of widely used public-key cryptosystems and publickey sharing schemes [\(Rivest et al., 1978;](#page-9-1) [Diffie and](#page-8-0) [Hellman, 1976\)](#page-8-0), it has become imperative to prepare for a post-quantum world.

One area of cryptographic concern is the secure management of data-at-rest, which often relies on hybrid encryption schemes. In such schemes, asymmetric encryption is used to encrypt a symmetric key to overcome the key distribution problem, while symmetric encryption is used to encrypt the data itself. In

<sup>a</sup> https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2835-9093

this context, many interesting questions arise, especially for the PQC migration of large bulk data stored in encrypted form on remote servers, e.g. in the context of cloud computing.

This paper focuses on the efficient migration to post-quantum secure key encapsulations designed to withstand the power of quantum attacks. We present a new scheme for ensuring a smooth, secure, and performance-preserving migration, which also allows for more flexibility in algorithm updates in the future [\(Sullivan, 2009\)](#page-9-2).

# 1.1 Motivation

The combination of asymmetric and symmetric encryption as hybrid encryption [\(Zhang, 2021\)](#page-9-3) is the de facto standard in applications where large amounts of data need to be stored or communicated, as it balances the flexibility of asymmetric encryption with the efficiency of symmetric ciphers.

However, while cryptographically relevant quantum computers pose only a moderate risk to sym-

<sup>b</sup> https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1829-4882

<sup>c</sup> https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1957-3725

<sup>d</sup> https://orcid.org/0009-0006-2065-2673

{1}------------------------------------------------

metric cryptography, the asymmetric part is vulnerable to serious threats. Thus, efficient means are needed to migrate from pre-quantum schemes to postquantum secure encryption mechanisms, ideally without having to re-encrypt the entire plaintext. This is especially true for storage applications where large amounts of data are stored on remote servers or in the cloud, where full re-encryption would require significant bandwidth.

The transition to PQC is becoming more and more urgent, as recently pointed out by a BSI report [\(Wilhelm et al., 2024\)](#page-9-4), which estimates that scalable quantum computers will be available in 10-15 years. Among others, the UK National Cyber Security Centre urges to start the transition now to be ready by 2035 [1](#page-1-0) . This is also in line with the US National Security Service's recommendation for the Commercial National Security Algorithm Suite 2.0[2](#page-1-1) .

After a multi-year selection process, NIST published the first standard for a post-quantum encryption scheme, ML-KEM (FIPS 203), in 2024. More specifically, standards such as ML-KEM specify so-called Key Encapsulation Mechanisms (KEMs)[\(Cramer and](#page-8-1) [Shoup, 2004\)](#page-8-1), which are specifically designed to encrypt only symmetric keys, which is considered sufficient for all types of applications [\(Barnes et al., 2022;](#page-8-2) [Poettering and Rastikian, 2023\)](#page-8-3). However, because they were originally intended for the secure generation and transmission of encryption keys, they are conceptually different from currently used encryption modes, such as the Optimal Asymmetric Encryption Padding (OAEP) often used with RSA and standardized in PKCS#1 [\(Kaliski and Staddon, 1998\)](#page-8-4). In addition, additional post-quantum secure KEMs are expected to be standardized by NIST [\(Alagic et al.,](#page-8-5) [2025\)](#page-8-5) and other organizations (e.g., ISO/IEC as part of ISO/IEC 18033[3](#page-1-2) ) in the coming years.

Therefore, new cryptographic schemes are needed to support the PQC transition, but also to allow more flexibility in general to allow easy replacement of mechanisms in general, i.e. to support cryptographic agility. Cryptographic agility promotes software engineering practices that facilitate the easy replacement of cryptographic algorithms and remains a muchdiscussed and under-researched topic, cf. [\(Alnahawi](#page-8-6) [et al., 2023;](#page-8-6) [Ott et al., 2023\)](#page-8-7).

In addition to switching to PQC cryptography and increasing agility in general, the secure combination of different classical and quantum-safe algorithms may also be of interest [\(Bruckner et al., 2023\)](#page-8-8). This is sometimes called hybridization, but it refers to the combination of different encryption algorithms with different hardness assumptions to further increase the confidence in the encryption. In this paradigm, different PQC algorithms could be combined in such a way that the adversary has to break both of them in order to gain access to the secret data, or PQC could even be combined with classical non-PQC methods in case the novel schemes are not sufficiently trustworthy. For our construction, this could also be achieved in a rather straightforward way, as will be shown in the following chapters.

# 1.2 Related Work

The PQC transition is gaining substantial momentum and also the research community is intensifying its effort to address the challenges on all levels. Ott et al. extensively analyze the challenges associated with PQC migration in [\(Ott et al., 2022\)](#page-8-9). The authors also acknowledge the importance of crypto agility and even expand its notion. Also the overview in [\(Wiesmaier et al., 2021\)](#page-9-5) show the importance and dynamic in the field and mentions the development of novel hybrid schemes as an important challenge to address. The existing gap in research on formal modeling of cryptographic migration, whether hybrid or combiner-based, is also highlighted by the industry [\(Ott et al., 2019\)](#page-8-10).

To the best of our knowledge, only little work exists on cryptographic frameworks and protocols and no simple and practical solutions for the particular application we are addressing exist [\(Badertscher et al.,](#page-8-11) [2023\)](#page-8-11). In our work, we particularly look into hybrid encryption [\(Zhang, 2021\)](#page-9-3) schemes which combine the strengths of both symmetric and asymmetric encryption to provide efficient and secure encryption. This approach is highly used to address several problems, such as data storage on clouds [\(AbdElnapi et al.,](#page-8-12) [2016\)](#page-8-12) and message delivery [\(P. et al., 2020\)](#page-8-13).

A particular interesting scheme in this context is the so-called FO-transform due to Fujisaki and Okamoto [\(Fujisaki and Okamoto, 1999;](#page-8-14) [Fujisaki and](#page-8-15) [Okamoto, 2013\)](#page-8-15). This transform combines an IND-CPA asymmetric encryption scheme with a secure symmetric scheme, resulting in an IND-CCA secure hybrid encryption mechanism. The scheme is well suited for PQC migration but does not support efficient means for crypto agility. Yet it requires that the symmetric key for the bulk data must be updated to-

<span id="page-1-0"></span><sup>1</sup>[https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/pqc-migration-tim](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/pqc-migration-timelines) [elines,](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/pqc-migration-timelines) accessed 2025-03-26.

<span id="page-1-1"></span><sup>2</sup>[https://www.nsa.gov/Press-Room/News-Highlights/](https://www.nsa.gov/Press-Room/News-Highlights/Article/Article/3148990/nsa-releases-future-quantum-resistant-qr-algorithm-requirements-for-national-se/) [Article/Article/3148990/nsa-releases-future-quantum-resis](https://www.nsa.gov/Press-Room/News-Highlights/Article/Article/3148990/nsa-releases-future-quantum-resistant-qr-algorithm-requirements-for-national-se/) [tant-qr-algorithm-requirements-for-national-se/,](https://www.nsa.gov/Press-Room/News-Highlights/Article/Article/3148990/nsa-releases-future-quantum-resistant-qr-algorithm-requirements-for-national-se/) accessed 2025-03-26

<span id="page-1-2"></span><sup>3</sup>[https://www.iso.org/standard/86890.html,](https://www.iso.org/standard/86890.html) accessed 2025-03-26

{2}------------------------------------------------

gether with the asymmetric scheme by re-encrypting the whole data under a different key. This is due to the use of KEMs, which cannot encrypt arbitrary plaintext keys, but upon invocation generate a fresh symmetric key together with an encryption (encapsulation) of that key.

In this work we try to circumvent this shortcomings and extend the scheme to better support crypto agility. Even if our goal is different from original FO transform, and we start from CCA-secure KEMs and secure Authenticated Encryption schemes, we use hybrid encryption schemes as well and took inspiration from (Fujisaki and Okamoto, 1999; Fujisaki and Okamoto, 2013) for the proof of security.

# 1.3 Our Contribution

In this work, we present a novel cryptographic protocol for hybrid encryption that provides agility for applications where large bulk data does not need to be re-encrypted during the update of the asymmetric part of the scheme. In particular, our scheme supports PQC transition scenarios because we rely on KEM for bulk key generation and encryption, which is novel. The work is motivated by real cloud storage migration scenarios faced by the industry.

To formally prove the security of our scheme, we introduce a new security model called *agile-CCA*, which is closely related to CCA security but extended with an update mechanism to support agility. The scheme itself is an extension of the FO transform based approach developed for hybrid PQC encryption, which uses KEM in combination with AE. The proposed scheme is proven to be secure in the new *agile-CCA* model and allows for both efficient and straightforward updates in hybrid PQC scenarios.

# 2 PRELIMINARIES

Throughout this document, n will denote the main security parameter. We write  $s \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{S}$  to denote that s was sampled uniformly at random from a set  $\mathcal{S}$ . By  $a \leftarrow \mathsf{A}(in)$  we denote that a is the output of a potentially randomized algorithm A on input in. If not mentioned explicitly, all algorithms in this document are assumed to be probabilistic polynomial time (PPT). We further write  $a \stackrel{?}{=} b$  to denote the of result of the comparison of a and b, i.e., it corresponds to 1 if and only if a = b. By  $\mathcal{H}: \{0,1\}^* \rightarrow \{0,1\}^n$  we denote a random oracle.

Finally, a function  $\varepsilon: \mathbb{N} \to \mathbb{R}^{\geq 0}$  is said to be negligible if it vanishes faster than any inverse polynomial,

i.e.,  $\forall c > 0$ .  $\exists m \in \mathbb{N} : \varepsilon(n) \leq \frac{1}{n^c}$  for all n > m.

# 2.1 Key Encapsulation

Intuitively, a key encapsulation mechanism (KEM) can be thought of as a special type of asymmetric encryption mechanism. However, instead of encrypting a message directly, a KEM encapsulates a randomly generated symmetric key using asymmetric encryption, allowing the recipient to securely retrieve and use the key for fast symmetric encryption of actual data. The definitions in the following are from (Bos et al., 2018) and (Katz and Lindell, 2014).

**Definition 1.** A key-encapsulation mechanism  $KEM = (Gen_{KEM}, Encaps, Decaps)$  is a triple of probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) algorithms together with a key space  $\mathcal{K}_{KEM}$  such that:

- Gen<sub>KEM</sub> takes as input a security parameter  $1^n$  and outputs a pair of keys  $(pk, sk) \in \mathcal{PK}_{KEM} \times \mathcal{SK}_{KEM}$ . We refer to the first as the public key and the second as the private key.
- Encaps takes a public key pk to produce a ciphertext  $c \in \mathcal{C}_{KEM}$  and a key  $k' \in \mathcal{K}_{KEM}$ . We suppose for simplicity that |k'| = n.
- Decaps takes a secret key sk and a ciphertext c, and outputs either a key  $k' \in \mathcal{K}_{KEM}$  or a special symbol  $\bot$  to indicate rejection.

A KEM is *correct* if decapsulation always returns the correct secret key, i.e.,

$$\mathbb{P}[\mathsf{Decaps}(sk,c) = k' | (c,k') \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)] = 1,$$

where the probability is taken over  $(pk,sk) \leftarrow \text{Gen}_{\mathsf{KEM}}(1^n)$ , for every n, and the random coins of Encaps.

A KEM is said to be secure if no adversary can gain any information about the secret key encapsulated inside a ciphertext, even after having seen decapsulations on arbitrary ciphertexts of its own choice.

**Definition 2.** A key-encapsulation scheme KEM= (Gen<sub>KEM</sub>, Encaps, Decaps) has indistinguishable encryptions under a chosen-ciphertext attack (or is CCA secure) if for all PPT adversaries  $\mathcal{A}$  there exists a negligible function  $\varepsilon_{KEM}$   $_{cca}$  such that

$$\mathbb{P}[\mathsf{Exp}^{\mathrm{cca}}_{\mathcal{A},\mathsf{KEM}}(1^n) = 1] \leq \frac{1}{2} + \varepsilon_{\mathsf{KEM}\ cca}(n),$$

where  $\mathcal{A}$  is not allowed to query the decapsulation oracle  $\mathsf{Decaps}_{sk}(\cdot)$  with the challenge ciphertext  $c^*$ , and the experiment is defined as follows.

{3}------------------------------------------------

 $\frac{\mathsf{Exp}^{\mathsf{cca}}_{\mathcal{A},\mathsf{KEM}}(1^n):}{1: (pk,sk) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{KEM}}(1^n)}$ 

2:  $(c^*, k_0^{\prime *}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)$ 

 $b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}$ 

4:  $k_1^{\prime *} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{K}_{KEM}$ 

5:  $b' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Decaps}_{sk}(\cdot)}(c^*, k'^*_{l})$ 

6: **return**  $b \stackrel{?}{=} b'$ 

## **Authenticated Encryption** 2.2

Informally, an authenticated encryption (AE) scheme is a symmetric encryption mechanism that ensures both confidentiality and integrity of a message. That is, it not only encrypts the message to keep it secret but also produces an authentication tag that allows the recipient to verify that the ciphertext has not been tampered with before decrypting. The definitions in the following are from (Katz and Lindell, 2014) (Katz and Yung, 2000).

**Definition 3.** A private-key encryption scheme AE is a tuple of algorithms (Gen<sub>AE</sub>, Enc, Dec) such that:

- Gen<sub>AF</sub> takes as input the security parameter 1<sup>n</sup> and outputs a key  $k \in \{0,1\}^n$ .
- Enc takes as input a key k and a plaintext message  $m \in \{0,1\}^*$ , and outputs a ciphertext  $c \in \{0,1\}^*$ .
- Dec takes as input a key k and a ciphertext c, and outputs a message m or a special symbol  $\perp$  denoting failure. We assume without loss of generality that Dec is deterministic.

It is required that decryption always yields the valid plaintext, i.e., for every n, every key k output by  $Gen(1^n)$ , and every  $m \in \{0,1\}^*$ , it holds that

$$\mathsf{Dec}_k(\mathsf{Enc}_k(m)) = m.$$

Intuitively, chosen-ciphertext attack (CCA) security for an authenticated encryption (AE) scheme ensures that an attacker cannot learn anything about the plaintext, even if they can obtain decryptions of arbitrary ciphertexts (excluding the target ciphertext). This means that the scheme remains secure against adversaries who attempt to manipulate ciphertexts and observe their decryptions, preventing attacks such as ciphertext malleability or oracle-based decryption exploits.

**Definition 4.** A private-key encryption scheme AE has indistinguishable encryptions under a chosenciphertext attack (or is CCA-secure) if for all probabilistic polynomial-time adversaries  $\mathcal{A}$  there exists a negligible function  $\varepsilon_{AE}$  cca such that:

$$|\mathbb{P}[\mathsf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A},\mathsf{AE}}^{\mathsf{cca}}(1^n) = 1] - \frac{1}{2}| \le \varepsilon_{\mathsf{AE}\ \mathit{cca}}(n),$$

where  $\mathcal{A}$  is not allowed to query the decryption oracle  $Dec_{sk}$  with the challenge ciphertext, and where the experiment is defined in the following.

 $\frac{\mathsf{Exp}^{\mathsf{cca}}_{\mathcal{A},\mathsf{AE}}(1^n):}{1: \quad k \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{AE}}(1^n)}$ 2:  $(m_0, m_1) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Enc}_k(\cdot), \mathsf{Dec}_k(\cdot)}(1^n)$ 3:  $b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}$ 4:  $c \leftarrow \operatorname{Enc}_k(m_b)$ 5:  $b' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Enc}_k(\cdot),\mathsf{Dec}_k(\cdot)}(1^n)$ 6: return  $b \stackrel{?}{=} b'$ 

### **SECURITY MODEL** 3

Our proposed scheme is designed as a public key encryption system for data at rest, with the capability to securely store large volumes of encrypted data. It aims to provide users with the ability to efficiently and securely rotate encryption keys and switch between encryption schemes. For this reason, we refer to it as an *agile* cryptosystem. The distinguishing feature compared to a traditional public key encryption scheme is as follows: ciphertexts consist of two parts - a static one and a dynamic one. For concreteness, the static one can be thought of as the encryption of the actual payload, while the dynamic part is the encryption of the symmetric key. Now, by the availability of an Update algorithm, the dynamic part can be updated (e.g., to a fresh key or an entirely new scheme) without requiring access to the actual payload.

**Definition 5.** An agile public key encryption scheme  $\Pi$  with a message space  $\mathcal{M}_{\Pi}$ , ciphertext space  $\mathcal{C}_{\Pi}$  =  $C_{st} \times C_{dyn}$ , public key space  $\mathcal{PK}_{\Pi}$  and private key space  $\mathcal{SK}_{\Pi}$  consists of a tuple of PPT algorithms  $(Gen_{\Pi}, Enc, Update, Dec)$  such that:

- Gen $_{\Pi}$  takes as input a security parameter  $1^n$  and outputs a couple of keys  $(pk, sk) \in \mathcal{P} \mathcal{K}_{\Pi} \times \mathcal{S} \mathcal{K}_{\Pi}$ . We refer to the first as the public key and the second as the private key. We assume for convenience that pk and sk each have length at least nand that *n* can be determined from *pk*, *sk*.
- Enc takes as input a public key pk and a message m from some underlying plaintext space  $\mathcal{M}_{\Pi}$  (that may depend on pk). It outputs a ciphertext C = $(c_{st}, c_{dyn}) \in \mathcal{C}_{\Pi}$ , which we write as  $C \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}_{pk}(m)$ . Here,  $c_{st}$  stands for static ciphertext and  $c_{dyn}$  for dynamic ciphertext.
- Update takes as input the public key pk, the secret key sk and the dynamic component of a ciphertext  $c_{dyn}$  and outputs a new dynamic com-

{4}------------------------------------------------

ponent of a ciphertext  $c'_{dyn}$ . We write  $c'_{dyn} \leftarrow \mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(c_{dyn})$ .

• Dec takes as input a private key sk and a ciphertext C, and outputs a message m or a special symbol  $\bot$  denoting failure. Without loss of generality, we assume that Dec is deterministic and write this as  $m \leftarrow \mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(C)$ .

We use the term "updated ciphertext" to indicate a ciphertext where the dynamic part results from the update algorithm and the static part is not changed. Namely,  $C' = (c_{st}, c'_{dyn})$  is the updated ciphertext of  $C = (c_{st}, c_{dyn})$ , where  $c'_{dyn} = \mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(c_{dyn})$ .

For agile cryptosystems, correctness is guaranteed if decryption of original and updated ciphertexts always yields the underlying message. That is, we require that for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ , every (pk, sk) output by  $Gen(1^n)$ , and every message m in the appropriate underlying plaintext space, the following equality holds:

$$\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\mathsf{Enc}_{pk}(m)) = m.$$

Moreover,

$$\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(c_{st},\mathsf{Update}_{nk,sk}^t(c_{dyn})) = m$$

for every  $t \in \mathbb{N}$ , for every n, (pk, sk), and m as before, where  $\mathsf{Update}^t$  means that the algorithm  $\mathsf{Update}$  is executed t times and  $(c_{st}, c_{dyn}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}_{pk}(m)$ .

In the following we now define the security of agile cryptosystems. The following definition is strongly inspired by the IND-CCA notion; however, in addition, we grad the adversary access to an Update oracle as well. The adversary now wins, if it is able to decide which of two adversarially-chosen messages is contained within a challenge ciphertext, as long as neither the challenge ciphertext, nor any updated version of it, have been queried to the decryption oracle.

This security concept ensures that an adversary cannot gain any information from a ciphertext, even when multiple ciphertexts and the updated version are available. It effectively models a scenario where a malicious server storing users' encrypted data attempts to disclose it.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Definition 6.** An agile encryption scheme  $\Pi = (\text{Gen}_{\Pi}, \text{Enc}, \text{Update}, \text{Dec})$  is said to be *agile-CCA secure* if for all PPT adversaries  $\mathcal{A}$  there exists a negligible function  $\varepsilon_{\Pi} _{ag-cca}$  such that

$$\mathbb{P}[\mathsf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{\mathrm{ag-cca}}(1^n) = 1] \leq \frac{1}{2} + \varepsilon_{\Pi \ ag-cca}(n),$$

where  $\mathcal{A}$  is not allowed to query the decryption oracle  $Dec_k(\cdot)$  with the challenge ciphertext  $C^*$ , and any updated version of it, and the experiment is defined as follows:

```
\frac{\mathsf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{\mathsf{ag-cca}}(1^n):}{1: \quad (pk,sk) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\Pi}(1^n)}
2: \quad (m_0,m_1) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\cdot),\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(\cdot)}()
3: \quad b \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}
4: \quad C^* \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}_{pk}(m_b)
5: \quad b' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\cdot),\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(\cdot)}(C^*)
6: \quad \mathbf{return} \ b \overset{?}{=} b'
```

# 4 DEFINITION OF OUR SCHEME

In the following we present an agile cryptosystem, denoted  $\Pi$ , satisfying all the requirements defined in the previous section within the random oracle model. In a nutshell, the protocol follows the hybrid encryption paradigm, where the message is encrypted using a symmetric key coming from a KEM, and the encapsulation of the symmetric key is stored alongside the ciphertext. Agility is ensured by allowing the public key encryption of the symmetric key to be changed without the need to re-encrypt the (potentially large) message itself.

As discussed earlier, this would be trivial if a public key encryption scheme was used for the encryption of the symmetric key, as one could simply decrypt the ciphertext and re-encrypt it using a different scheme; however, for KEMs, one does not have control over the secret key (as it is output rather than an input). We thus insert a *XOR-component*, which we use to decouple the dependency of the symmetric key from the KEM's output, but rather use the KEM's key to blind the (static) symmetric key in a one-time-pad manner.

More precisely, our scheme consists of four key components:

- 1. **First encryption step**: The message is encrypted using a CCA secure symmetric authenticated encryption scheme AE, where the encryption key is generated randomly. This symmetric encryption forms part of the ciphertext.
- 2. **Key-encapsulation step**: A CCA secure keyencapsulation mechanism (KEM) algorithm is used to generate the second component of the ciphertext, which encapsulates another key.
- 3. **The XOR component**: Another part of the ciphertext consists of the XOR of the symmetric key and the key output by the KEM, denoted as k'. For clarity, we assume that the key k' produced by KEM and the key k produced by AE can be encoded as strings of the same length, and we will refer to these encoded keys as k' and k again (with some abuse of notation).

{5}------------------------------------------------

4. Components to check integrity: To ensure integrity and achieve the required security level, the result of the random oracle applied to the key from the encapsulation scheme completes the ciphertext.

Note that the symmetric key can be encrypted using multiple cryptosystems by using a combined KEM (e.g., based on pre-quantum and post-quantum assumptions), combining their security features (Giacon et al., 2018). This approach ensures that an adversary must break each of the cryptosystems individually to recover the symmetric key.

Observe that, with a slight abuse of notation, we refer to the encryption and decryption operations as Enc and Dec respectively, for both the symmetric scheme AE and the agile scheme  $\Pi$ . However, it is important to distinguish between these operations. In the symmetric case, the subscript k (the symmetric key) is used (namely,  $\operatorname{Enc}_k$  and  $\operatorname{Dec}_k$ ), while in the other case, the public key pk and secret key sk are used ( $\operatorname{Enc}_{pk}$  and  $\operatorname{Dec}_{sk}$ ). When these indices are not explicitly provided, the context clarifies which of the two algorithms is being referred to.

Specifically, the algorithms of the scheme are implemented in this way:

The *key generation*  $Gen_{\Pi}$  simply generates a key pair (pk, sk) of the key encapsulation scheme KEM.

```
\frac{\mathsf{Gen}_{\Pi}(1^n):}{1: (pk,sk) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{KEM}}(1^n)}
2: return (pk,sk)
```

The *encryption algorithm* Enc takes as input the message m and the public key pk. It generates a random symmetric key k, a ciphertext, and a key using the Encaps algorithm of KEM (e and k', respectively), which is fed with the public key pk. The scheme then computes the XOR of the two generated keys, encrypts the message m with the AE algorithm using the symmetric key k, obtaining a symmetric ciphertext c, and generates a tag  $\tau$  using the random oracle  $\mathcal{H}$ . This tag binds together the key and ciphertext generated by Encaps and the XOR (namely,  $\tau = \mathcal{H}(k', e, e')$ ). Finally, everything computed, except for the symmetric key k and the key produced by Encaps k', is output as the ciphertext. To simplify the notation, sometimes the symbol C is used to indicate the ciphertext of the encryption scheme, i.e.,  $C := (c, e, e', \tau)$ . Observe that  $C = (c_{st}, c_{dyn})$  where  $c_{st} = c$  and all the other components of C constitute  $c_{dyn}$ .

```
\frac{\mathsf{Enc}_{pk}(m):}{1: \quad k \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{AE}}(1^n)}
2: \quad e, k' \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)
3: \quad e' = k \oplus k'
4: \quad c \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}_k(m)
5: \quad \tau \leftarrow \mathcal{H}(k', e, e')
6: \quad \mathbf{return} \ (c, e, e', \tau)
```

The *update procedure* Update takes as input the public key pk, the secret key sk, and the dynamic part  $c_{dyn} = (e, e', \tau)$  of a ciphertext  $C = (c, c_{dyn})$ , i.e. the encapsulated key e, the XOR component e', and the expected tag  $\tau$ . First, the algorithm decapsulates the encapsulated key e using the secret key sk to obtain a candidate key k'. It then computes the symmetric key k by XORing the recovered key k' with the XOR component e'. The algorithm checks whether the result of the random oracle function  $\mathcal{H}(k',e,e')$  equals the expected tag τ. If the check passes, the algorithm proceeds by generating a new encapsulated key  $e_2$  and a new key  $k'_2$  using the Encaps procedure with the public key pk. It then computes a new XOR component  $e_2'$  by XORing the symmetric key k with the new key  $k_2'$  and calculates a new tag  $\tau_2$  using the random oracle function  $\mathcal{H}$  with input  $(k'_2, e_2, e'_2)$ . The updated values, including the new encapsulated key  $e_2$ , the new XOR component  $e'_2$ , the original ciphertext c, and the new tag  $\tau_2$ , are returned. If the random oracle check fails, the algorithm returns the error symbol  $\perp$ , indicating that the update operation cannot be performed.

```
\frac{\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(e,e',\mathsf{\tau}):}{1:\ k' \leftarrow \mathsf{Decaps}_{sk}(e)}
 2: k = e' \oplus k'
 3: if \mathcal{H}(k',e,e') = \tau then
         e_2, k_2' \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)
 4:
           e_2' = k \oplus k_2'
 5:
           \tau_2 \leftarrow \mathcal{H}(k_2', e_2, e_2')
  6:
             return (e_2, e'_2, \tau_2)
  7:
  8:
         else
              return \perp
  9:
10: end if
```

The *decryption algorithm* Dec inputs the secret key sk and the ciphertext. First, it decapsulates the Encaps ciphertext and XORs the result with the XOR component of the ciphertext to recover the symmetric key k. It then performs the random oracle check using the components from the ciphertext. If the check succeeds, the algorithm decrypts the symmetric ciphertext using the recovered key k. The result is output. If the random oracle check fails, the error symbol  $\bot$  is output.

{6}------------------------------------------------

It is clear that the correctness property holds from the correctness of the encapsulation scheme KEM and the correctness of the authenticated encryption AE.

Furthermore, the scheme is efficient, as the Update algorithm does not require the symmetric ciphertext *c* for its operation.

# 5 PROOF OF SECURITY

Our goal is to prove that the previously defined scheme  $\Pi$  satisfies the agile-CCA security property, cf. Definition 6. Let us write explicitly the agile-CCA game for  $\Pi$ :

$$\frac{\mathsf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{\mathsf{cca}}(1^n) : (\mathsf{Game}\ G_0)}{1 : (pk,sk) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{KEM}}(1^n)}$$

$$2 : (m_0,m_1) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot,\cdot),\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot)}(pk)$$

$$3 : b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}$$

$$4 : k \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{AE}}(1^n)$$

$$5 : e,k' \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)$$

$$6 : e' = k \oplus k'$$

$$7 : c \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}_k(m_b)$$

$$8 : \tau \leftarrow \mathcal{H}(k,e,e')$$

$$9 : C := (c,e,e',\tau)$$

$$10 : b' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot,\cdot,\cdot),\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot,\cdot)}(C)$$

$$11 : \mathbf{return}\ b \stackrel{?}{=} b'$$

The security is proven under the assumptions that KEM is CCA secure and AE is CCA secure.

The strategy employed for the proof is the classical game-based approach relying on indistinguishable transitions. In every transition, the update Update pk,sk and decryption  $Dec_{sk}$  oracles can be simulated with Update pk and Dec provided after game  $G_2$ .

Transitions:

- Game  $G_0$  is the CCA game for the encryption scheme;
- $G_0 \rightarrow G_1$ : Under the assumption that KEM is CCA secure, the adversary is not able to distinguish a key k' produced by the Encaps algorithm

from a random string  $r_{k'}$  of the same type with non-negligible probability. So, we can replace e, k' with independent ciphertext and key  $r_e, r_{k'}$  respectively. e' can also be renamed with  $r_{e'}$ , as it is the XOR of two strings, and one of those is independent of everything else.

•  $G_1 \rightarrow G_2$  here we replace c with a random encryption, i.e. we can replace it with an encryption of the zero string of the same length as  $|m_b|$ . This is allowed by the CCA property of AE.

After these transitions, the adversary has only random data, i.e., nothing can be inferred regarding the ciphertext, so

$$\mathbb{P}[G_2=1]=\frac{1}{2}.$$

```
\frac{\mathsf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{\mathsf{cca}}(1^{n}) : (\mathsf{Game}\ G_{1})}{1 : (pk,sk) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{KEM}}(1^{n})} \\
2 : (m_{0},m_{1}) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot,\cdot),\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot)}() \\
3 : b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\} \\
4 : k \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{AE}}(1^{n}) \\
5 : \cdot \cdot \cdot r_{k'} \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk) \\
6 : \underline{r_{e}, \cdot \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)} \\
7 : \underline{r_{e'} = k \oplus r_{k'}} \\
8 : c \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}_{k}(m_{b}) \\
9 : \underline{\tau} \leftarrow \mathcal{H}(k',r_{e},r_{e'}) \\
10 : \underline{C} := (c,r_{e},r'_{e},\tau) \\
11 : b' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot,\cdot),\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot)}(C) \\
12 : \mathbf{return}\ b \stackrel{?}{=} b'
```

# $\frac{\mathsf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}^{\mathsf{cca}}(1^n) : (\mathsf{Game}\ G_2)}{1 : (pk,sk) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{KEM}}(1^n)}$ $2 : (m_0,m_1) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot,\cdot),\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot)}()$ $3 : b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}$ $4 : k \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_{\mathsf{AE}}(1^n)$ $5 : \cdot, r_{k'} \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)$ $6 : r_e, \cdot \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)$ $7 : r_{e'} = k \oplus r_{k'}$ $8 : \underline{r_c} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}_k(0^{|m_b|})$ $9 : \underline{\tau} \leftarrow \mathcal{H}(k,r_e,r_{e'})$ $10 : \underline{C} := (r_c,r_e,r_{e'},\tau)$ $11 : b' \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{Dec}_{sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot,\cdot),\mathsf{Update}_{pk,sk}(\cdot,\cdot,\cdot)}(C)$

12: **return** 
$$b \stackrel{?}{=} b'$$

{7}------------------------------------------------

```
\mathsf{Update}_{pk}(e,e',\mathsf{\tau}) :
 1: if \exists k' s.t. (k', e, e', \tau) \in \mathcal{E} then
              k = k' \oplus e'
  2:
             (e_2, k_2') \leftarrow \mathsf{Encaps}(pk)
 3:
             Append (e_2, k_2') to \mathcal{E}
  4:
             e_2' := k \oplus k_2'
  5:
              \tau_2 := \mathcal{H}(k', e_2, e_2')
  6:
              return (e_2, e'_2, \tau_2)
  7:
  8:
         else
              return \perp
  9:
         end if
10:
\mathsf{Dec}(c,e,e',\mathsf{\tau}) :
 \frac{\mathsf{Dec}(c,e,e',\tau):}{1: \;\;\; \mathbf{if} \; \exists k' \; \mathrm{s.t.} \; (k',e,e',\tau) \in \mathcal{E} \; \mathbf{then}}
              k = k' \oplus e'
  2:
              return Dec_k(c)
  3:
  4: else
              return \perp
  5:
  6: end if
```

It remains to be demonstrated that the oracles Dec and Update<sub>pk</sub> are indistinguishable from Dec<sub>sk</sub> and Update<sub>pk,sk</sub>. We only prove the case for Dec and Dec<sub>sk</sub>, as the other case is equivalent.

Dec is simulated in this way: when the adversary queries for a decryption of a ciphertext  $(c,e,e',\tau)$ , the oracle checks if there exists a k' such that the tuple  $(k',e,e',\tau)$  is in the list of queries/output  $\mathcal E$  of the oracle  $\mathcal H$ . If it is, then the adversary already queried the oracle with these values, the key k can be reconstructed honestly, and the oracle outputs the decryption of c with the symmetric key just recovered. Otherwise, the adversary is submitting a tuple without having queried the oracle  $\mathcal H$  in advance, so the error symbol  $\bot$  is returned.

To detect the updated version of the challenge ciphertext, the oracle can store all the oracle queries in the update function in a separated list or mark them with a special symbol.

It is easy to observe that Dec and Dec<sub>sk</sub> behave in the same way except when the adversary can submit a tuple  $(c, e, e', \tau)$  such that  $\mathcal{H}(k', e, e') = \tau$ . Since  $\mathcal{H}$  is a random oracle, this probability is exactly the probability to take the right value of  $\tau$ , which is  $1/2^n$ . By the difference lemma, the two oracles are indistinguishable.

In the end, considering all the transitions and simulations, we obtain that the protocol satisfies the agile-CCA security property.

This proof hinges on the CCA security of the inner Key Encapsulation Mechanism. Even if an adversary obtains multiple ciphertexts and computes the

XOR of several KEM-derived keys, no information about any single key is revealed, as long as each key is drawn independently from a distribution that is computationally indistinguishable from uniform. Under these assumptions, the symmetric key *k* remains perfectly hidden. If, however, the keys are correlated or come from a non-uniform distribution and an attacker learns one or more XORs, this guarantee breaks down.

Likewise, any break in the security of the authenticated encryption scheme immediately yields an insecure overall scheme. Finally, we invoke the randomoracle model to bind each key to its ciphertext: without it, the encapsulation e' remains malleable, and we cannot hope to achieve stronger than IND-CPA security.

# 6 CONCLUSION

In this work, we introduced a novel elementary encryption scheme that is particularly well-suited for data-at-rest applications. This scheme facilitates efficient key rotation and enables seamless migration to post-quantum cryptographic protocols. Given the increasing emphasis on transitioning to post-quantum cryptography, which is widely recommended by experts but often perceived as cumbersome, time-consuming, and costly in industrial settings, our approach has the potential to significantly ease this migration process.

The efficiency gain of our scheme is straightforward and stems from reducing the amount of data transmitted and avoiding a bulk decryption and reencryption. In a conventional approach, the full symmetric ciphertext must travel round-trip: it's sent to the user, the user decrypts and re-encrypts it, then sends the new ciphertext back. In contrast, our construction only requires the user to receive and return an encapsulation of a fresh key—consisting of a fixed-length key string plus its authentication tag—instead of the entire ciphertext. This reduction from "ciphertext  $\rightarrow$  decrypt/re-encrypt  $\rightarrow$  ciphertext" to "keyencapsulation  $\rightarrow$  update  $\rightarrow$  key-encapsulation" yields a significant bandwidth saving proportional to the original ciphertext size.

Furthermore, we target agility in swapping only the public-key component—since public-key operations are generally far more expensive than symmetric-key ones. By contrast, trying to change the symmetric key without touching the ciphertext is meaningless: if the ciphertext itself remains unchanged, it would have to decrypt correctly under both the old and the new key, which breaks correct-

{8}------------------------------------------------

ness.

Aside from simple outsourced storage applications, we would like to emphasize that our approach can be beneficial in other scenarios as well. For example, consider a scenario where access to sensitive data is managed using attribute-based encryption (ABE), where ciphertexts are tagged with policies and users can only decrypt if their secret keys match the policy [\(Bethencourt et al., 2007\)](#page-8-20). When using ABE-KEMs [\(Chotard et al., 2017\)](#page-8-21), changing the access policy would require re-encrypting all the data, since the secret key is again output by the ABE-KEM. Our approach overcomes this limitation, allowing efficient use of ABE-KEMs in environments that may require dynamic updates of access policies.

Acknowledgement. This work has received funding from the European Union's Horizon Europe research and innovation program under Grant Agreement No. 101114043 ("QSNP"), from the DIGITAL-2021- QCI-01 Digital European Program under Project number No. 101091642 and the Austrian National Foundation for Research, Technology and Development("QCI-CAT"), and EU Digital Europe Programme under Grant Agreement No. 101190366 (PiQASO).

# REFERENCES

- <span id="page-8-12"></span>AbdElnapi, N. M., Omara, F. A., and Omran, N. F. (2016). A hybrid hashing security algorithm for data storage on cloud computing.
- <span id="page-8-5"></span>Alagic, G., Maxime, B., Pierre, C., David, C., Quynh, D., Thinh, D., John, K., Jacob, L., Yi-Kai, L., Carl, M., Dustin, M., Rene, P., Ray, P., Angela, R., Hamilton, S., Daniel, S.-T., and Noah, W. (2025). Status report on the fourth round of the NIST post-quantum cryptography standardization process.
- <span id="page-8-6"></span>Alnahawi, N., Schmitt, N., Wiesmaier, A., Heinemann, A., and Grasmeyer, T. (2023). On the state of cryptoagility. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/487.
- <span id="page-8-11"></span>Badertscher, C., Ciampi, M., and Kiayias, A. (2023). Agile cryptography: A universally composable approach. In Rothblum, G. and Wee, H., editors, *Theory of Cryptography*, pages 480–509, Cham. Springer Nature Switzerland.
- <span id="page-8-2"></span>Barnes, R., Bhargavan, K., Lipp, B., and Wood, C. A. (2022). Hybrid Public Key Encryption. RFC 9180.
- <span id="page-8-20"></span>Bethencourt, J., Sahai, A., and Waters, B. (2007). Ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption. In *2007 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P 2007), 20-23 May 2007, Oakland, California, USA*, pages 321–334. IEEE Computer Society.
- <span id="page-8-16"></span>Bos, J., Ducas, L., Kiltz, E., Lepoint, T., Lyubashevsky, V., Schanck, J. M., Schwabe, P., Seiler, G., and Stehle, D.

- (2018). Crystals kyber: A cca-secure module-latticebased kem. In *2018 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P)*, pages 353–367.
- <span id="page-8-8"></span>Bruckner, S., Ramacher, S., and Striecks, C. (2023). Muckle+: End-to-end hybrid authenticated key exchanges. In Johansson, T. and Smith-Tone, D., editors, *Post-Quantum Cryptography*, pages 601–633, Cham. Springer Nature Switzerland.
- <span id="page-8-21"></span>Chotard, J., Phan, D. H., and Pointcheval, D. (2017). Homomorphic-policy attribute-based key encapsulation mechanisms. In Nguyen, P. Q. and Zhou, J., editors, *Information Security - 20th International Conference, ISC 2017, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, November 22-24, 2017, Proceedings*, volume 10599 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 155–172. Springer.
- <span id="page-8-1"></span>Cramer, R. and Shoup, V. (2004). Design and analysis of practical public-key encryption schemes secure against adaptive chosen ciphertext attack. *SIAM J. Comput.*, 33(1):167–226.
- <span id="page-8-0"></span>Diffie, W. and Hellman, M. (1976). New directions in cryptography. *IEEE Transactions on Information Theory*, 22(6):644–654.
- <span id="page-8-14"></span>Fujisaki, E. and Okamoto, T. (1999). Secure integration of asymmetric and symmetric encryption schemes. In *Proceedings of the 19th Annual International Cryptology Conference on Advances in Cryptology*, CRYPTO '99, page 537–554, Berlin, Heidelberg. Springer-Verlag.
- <span id="page-8-15"></span>Fujisaki, E. and Okamoto, T. (2013). Secure integration of asymmetric and symmetric encryption schemes. In *Journal of Cryptology, vol. 26, no. 1, 2013*, pages 80– 101.
- <span id="page-8-19"></span>Giacon, F., Heuer, F., and Poettering, B. (2018). KEM combiners. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2018/024.
- <span id="page-8-4"></span>Kaliski, B. and Staddon, J. (1998). PKCS #1: RSA cryptography specifications version 2.0. Num Pages: 39.
- <span id="page-8-17"></span>Katz, J. and Lindell, Y. (2014). *Introduction to Modern Cryptography, Second Edition*. Chapman & Hall/CRC, 2nd edition.
- <span id="page-8-18"></span>Katz, J. and Yung, M. (2000). Unforgeable encryption and chosen ciphertext secure modes of operation. In *International Workshop on Fast Software Encryption*, pages 284–299. Springer.
- <span id="page-8-9"></span>Ott, D., Moreau, D., and Gaur, M. (2022). Planning for cryptographic readiness in an era of quantum computing advancement. In *International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy*.
- <span id="page-8-7"></span>Ott, D., Paterson, K., and Moreau, D. (2023). Where is the research on cryptographic transition and agility? 66(4):29–32.
- <span id="page-8-10"></span>Ott, D., Peikert, C., and other workshop participants (2019). Identifying research challenges in post quantum cryptography migration and cryptographic agility.
- <span id="page-8-13"></span>P., D., Babu, S., and Vijayalakshmi, Y. (2020). Enhancement of e-commerce security through asymmetric key algorithm. *Computer Communications*, 153:125–134.
- <span id="page-8-3"></span>Poettering, B. and Rastikian, S. (2023). A study of kem generalizations. In Gunther, F. and Hesse, J., editors, ¨ *Se-*

{9}------------------------------------------------

- *curity Standardisation Research*, pages 53–77, Cham. Springer Nature Switzerland.
- <span id="page-9-1"></span>Rivest, R. L., Shamir, A., and Adleman, L. (1978). A method for obtaining digital signatures and public-key cryptosystems. *Commun. ACM*, 21(2):120–126.
- <span id="page-9-0"></span>Shor, P. W. (1997). Polynomial-time algorithms for prime factorization and discrete logarithms on a quantum computer. *SIAM Journal on Computing*, 26(5):1484–1509.
- <span id="page-9-2"></span>Sullivan, B. (2009). Cryptographic agility. [https://learn.mi](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2009/brownfield/cryptographic-agility) [crosoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2009/bro](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2009/brownfield/cryptographic-agility) [wnfield/cryptographic-agility.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/msdn-magazine/2009/brownfield/cryptographic-agility)
- <span id="page-9-5"></span>Wiesmaier, A., Alnahawi, N., Grasmeyer, T., Geißler, J., Zeier, A., Bauspieß, P., and Heinemann, A. (2021). On pqc migration and crypto-agility.
- <span id="page-9-4"></span>Wilhelm, F. K., Steinwandt, R., Zeuch, D., Lageyre, P., and Kirchhoff, S. (2024). Status of quantum computer development - Entwicklungsstand Quantencomputer. Technical report, German Federal Office for Information Security.
- <span id="page-9-3"></span>Zhang, Q. (2021). An overview and analysis of hybrid encryption: The combination of symmetric encryption and asymmetric encryption. pages 616–622.