

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Improvements to RSA key generation and CRT on embedded devices (full version)

Mike Hamburg, Mike Tunstall, and Qinglai Xiao

Rambus, Inc. mhamburg,mtunstall,qxiao@rambus.com

Abstract. RSA key generation requires devices to generate large prime numbers. The na¨ıve approach is to generate candidates at random, and then test each one for (probable) primality. However, it is faster to use a sieve method, where the candidates are chosen so as not to be divisible by a list of small prime numbers tpiu.

Sieve methods can be somewhat complex and time-consuming, at least by the standards of embedded and hardware implementations, and they can be tricky to defend against side-channel analysis. Here we describe an improvement on Joye et al.'s sieve based on the Chinese Remainder Theorem (CRT). We also describe a new sieve method using quadratic residuosity which is simpler and faster than previously known methods, and which can produce values in desired RSA parameter ranges such as p2 n´1{2 , 2 n q with minimal additional work. The same methods can be used to generate strong primes and DSA moduli.

We also demonstrate a technique for RSA private key operations using the Chinese Remainder Theorem (RSA-CRT) without q ´<sup>1</sup> mod p. This technique also leads to inversion-free batch RSA and inversion-free RSA mod p k q.

We demonstrate how an embedded device can use our key generation and RSA-CRT techniques to perform RSA efficiently without storing the private key itself: only a symmetric seed and one or two short hints are required.

Keywords: RSA · prime generation

# 1 Introduction

To generate private keys for the RSA cryptosystem [\[RSA78\]](#page-21-0), devices must choose random, secret prime numbers. Prime number generation is also required for finite-field Diffie-Hellman (DH) and DSA parameter generation [\[DH76,](#page-20-0)[KG13\]](#page-21-1). DH and DSA parameter generation has become a more common requirement since the Logjam attack [\[ABD](#page-19-0)`15], which allows multiple DH and DSA keys to be attacked together if they use the same parameter set.

Prime generation algorithms may use sieving techniques to reduce the number of candidates that must be tested. [\[JPV00\]](#page-20-1) describes two sieving methods: one based on the Chinese Remainder Theorem (CRT) and one based on Carmichael's λ function; the latter is improved in [\[JP06\]](#page-20-2). Here we describe 

{1}------------------------------------------------

an improvement to the CRT sieve to mitigate its largest downside, namely a large precomputed table of CRT coefficients. We also describe a novel sieving algorithm based on quadratic residuosity, which may be more resistant to side-channel attack than a CRT-based sieve.

Our improved sieving algorithms work well with the other known techniques for generating RSA keys, DSA keys and strong primes on embedded devices [JPV00,JP03]. With some modification, our CRT-based sieve can be used to efficiently generate safe primes as well.

The RSA private operation is also often implemented using the CRT, which quarters the computation time. The CRT requires an extra value,  $q^{-1} \mod p$ , which is typically computed during key generation and stored with the private key. We show how to modify a side-channel countermeasure to perform RSA-CRT efficiently without this value, simplifying key generation and storage. The technique generalizes trivially to multi-prime RSA. Less trivially, it generalizes to inverse-free RSA modulo  $p^kq$  [Tak98,Tak04], which previously required inversion not only of q mod p but also of the public encryption exponent e mod p.

In fact, these are instances of a more general batching technique [Ham12] which we briefly recap in Section 3.2. This generalized batching technique has previously been applied to elliptic curves, but not to RSA. It can also be used to implement batch RSA [Fia90] without inversion.

For embedded devices whose nonvolatile memory consists only of fuses, the cost of storing an RSA private key is significant. It would be preferable if the private key could be expanded from a secret seed — perhaps even a PUF key — instead of being stored. RSA key generation is slow, but can be skipped by using one or two short (16-bit) hints which are recorded in nonvolatile memory. With previous techniques, compressing the keys this way would result in a large performance loss. But with our new key generation and RSA-CRT techniques, it only incurs a few percent performance loss, at least for larger RSA keys.

For brevity, this conference version omits the proof of Theorem 1. It is found in Appendix A of the full version, to be found at https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1507.

#### 1.1 Notation

Let  $\mathbb{R}$  denote the real numbers. Let  $\mathbb{Z}$  and  $\mathbb{Z}/n$  denote the integers and the ring of integers mod an integer n, respectively. Let  $\mathbb{F}_{p^e}$  denote the Galois field of  $p^e$  elements. Call two integers (m,n) coprime if their greatest common divisor is 1. Let  $(\mathbb{Z}/n)^*$  be the multiplicative group of  $\mathbb{Z}/n$ , which contains the elements  $m \in \mathbb{Z}/n$  which are coprime to n.

For positive integers (p, e, n), let p|n or  $p \nmid n$  mean that p divides or does not divide n, respectively, and let  $p^e||n$  mean that  $p^e$  divides n but  $p^{e+1}$  does not. In all cases where this notation is used, p is a prime number. For brevity we sometimes omit that qualification in notations such as "for all  $p^e||n$ ".

{2}------------------------------------------------

Let  $\phi(n)$  and  $\lambda(n)$  denote the Euler and Carmichael totient functions, respectively:

$$\phi(n) := \prod_{p^e||n} p^{e-1} \cdot (p-1)$$
 and  $\lambda(n) := \text{LCM } \{p^{e-1} \cdot (p-1) \text{ for all } p^e||n\}$ 

For all  $x \in (\mathbb{Z}/n)^*, x^{\phi(n)} = x^{\lambda(n)} = 1.$ 

For integers (x, p), we say that x is a quadratic residue (resp quadratic non-residue) mod p if there exists (resp does not exist) an integer y such that  $x \equiv y^2$  mod p. We will only consider quadratic (non)residues modulo prime p.

For any ring R, and any group G with group operation  $\odot$ , and any functions  $F_1, F_2: G \to R$ , their convolution  $F_1 * F_2$  is defined as:

$$(F_1 * F_2)(x) := \sum_{x_1 \odot x_2 = x} F_1(x_1) \cdot F_2(x_2).$$

The power-convolution  $F_1^{*k}$  is defined as the convolution  $F_1 * F_1 * \ldots * F_1$  of k copies of  $F_1$ .

A probability distribution  $\mathcal{D}$  on a finite set S may be seen as a *stochastic* function  $S \to \mathbb{R}$ , meaning a function such that  $\mathcal{D}(x) \geq 0$  for each  $x \in S$ , and  $\sum_{x \in S} \mathcal{D}(x) = 1$ . If S is a group, then this allows us to convolve distributions. This gives the distribution of the product of two samples:

$$\mathcal{D}_1 * \mathcal{D}_2 = \{x_1 \odot x_2 : x_1 \leftarrow \mathcal{D}_1, x_2 \leftarrow \mathcal{D}_2\}.$$

The notation  $x \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} S$  means to choose an element uniformly at random from a set S. The notation [A, B] means the interval from A to B, inclusive.

The Montgomery reduction [Mon85] of  $x \mod N$  is  $x/R \mod N$  for some fixed value R > N which is coprime to N. This is usually implemented for N odd and R a power of 2, in which case it is typically more efficient than ordinary reduction (implemented using, e.g., Barrett's reduction algorithm [Bar87]). The operation taking  $(x,y) \to xy/R \mod N$  is called Montgomery multiplication.

# 2 Generating prime numbers

#### 2.1 Naïve algorithm

Generating random prime numbers is, in some sense, simple. There are well-established probabilistic primality tests<sup>1</sup> [Rab80,PSW80,AM93] that work for large numbers, and an approximately  $1/(n \ln 2)$  fraction of the numbers less than  $2^n$  are prime. So we can just choose random numbers and test them for (probable) primality. If a 1024-bit prime is desired, it will take about  $1024 \cdot \ln 2 \approx 710$  tries in expectation, but may take much longer if the generator is unlucky.

<span id="page-2-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Most of these algorithms exhibit false positives in rare cases. That is, when given a prime number they always say that it is prime, but they may accept a composite number as prime with some tiny probability. The present work does not address this issue.

{3}------------------------------------------------

This naïve algorithm is shown in Algorithm 1. However, typically the test "if p is prime" is somewhat slow, requiring an exponentiation in the case of a Fermat or Miller-Rabin test. The primality test may be sped up somewhat by using trial division by several small primes  $\{p_i\}$  before testing, but this is not especially fast either. Furthermore, it risks revealing information about p mod  $p_i$  via a side-channel such as power consumption.

### Algorithm 1 Naïve prime generation

```
1: procedure PRIMEGEN(L, H, t) \rhd Try t times to generate a prime in [L, H]
2: for i = 1 to t do
3: p \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} [L, H]
4: if p is prime then return p
5: end for
6: return Failure
7: end procedure
```

### 2.2 Sieving algorithms

The naïve algorithm's performance can be improved by choosing p in a way that is guaranteed not to be divisible by small primes; for example, we might choose  $x \in (\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ , for a constant M which is divisible by many small primes. Since we wish to generate primes in a certain range — an interval [L, H] — we can then adjust x to be in that range without changing its value mod M. This sieving method is shown in Algorithm 2, which is a variant of Joye et al.'s sieving algorithm [JPV00, Figure 6]. This algorithm samples from the slightly narrower interval  $[L, L + \left\lfloor \frac{H-L}{M} \right\rfloor \cdot M]$ . If this is close enough to H, it may be acceptable; otherwise we can instead sample from the slightly wider interval  $[L, L + \left\lfloor \frac{H-L}{M} \right\rfloor \cdot M]$  and reject candidates that are greater than H.

#### Algorithm 2 Prime generation using sieve [JPV00]

```
1: procedure PrimeGen(L, H, t)
                                                              \triangleright Try t times to generate a prime in [L, H]
 2:
          Let M be a product of small primes.
          x \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/M)^*
 3:
                                                                                                \triangleright This step is tricky
          for i = 1 to t do
\alpha \leftarrow [0, \lfloor (H - L)/M \rfloor - 1]
 4:
 5:
               p \leftarrow L + (x - L \mod M) + \alpha M
 6:
                                                                                           \rightharpoonup Choose p \equiv x \mod M
 7:
               if p is prime then return p
                                                                             \rightharpoonup May just be x \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/M)^* again
 8:
               x \leftarrow \text{Next}(x)
 9:
          end for
10:
          return Failure
11: end procedure
```

{4}------------------------------------------------

This sieving algorithm provides a considerable speedup, of approximately  $M/\phi(M)$ . For example, by taking M the 1019-bit product of the first 131 primes, this is a factor of  $\approx 11.8$ , improving 1024-bit prime generation from 710 tries to 60 tries in expectation.

To increase performance, the sieving algorithm does not necessarily repeat the sampling procedure for each candidate p. Instead, it updates the sample  $x \leftarrow \text{NEXT}(x)$ , where NEXT is some (possibly randomized) update function. Joye et al. take NEXT $(x) := 2 \cdot x \mod M$ . This forces them to take M odd; to avoid running the primality test on even p, they add M if p is even. The choice of a deterministic update function is problematic, because it allows side-channel attackers to accumulate information about x across several iterations [CC07]. It also reduces the entropy of the resulting primes, because the algorithm is more likely to choose primes p such that  $p/2^i \mod M$  is composite for the first few i.

The difficulty remains in sampling efficiently from  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ . The samples should be nearly uniform<sup>2</sup> in  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ . Rejection sampling would work, but it is slow for large M, and calculating GCD(x, M) to test coprimality has side-channel concerns [AGTB19,CAB20].

**Joye-Paillier-Vaudenay CRT sieve** Joye, Paillier and Vaudenay suggest to sample  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$  using the Chinese Remainder Theorem [JPV00, Figure 3]. Let  $\llbracket M_i \rrbracket_{i=1}^n$  be a sequence of mutually coprime integers – Joye et al. take them to be prime powers. Let  $M := \prod_i M_i$ , and precompute a sequence  $\llbracket \theta_i \rrbracket_{i=1}^n$  where  $\theta_i \equiv 1 \mod M_i$  and  $\theta_i \equiv 0 \mod M_j$  for all  $j \neq i$ . Then one can sample  $x \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$  as

$$x \leftarrow \left(\sum x_i \cdot \theta_i\right) \mod M$$
 where each  $x_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/M_i)^*$ .

Here sampling from  $(\mathbb{Z}/M_i)^*$  may be much faster and simpler than sampling from  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ . If  $M_i$  is a prime power  $q^e$ , we just need to choose a sample that is not divisible by q. For  $M_i$  of other forms, sampling algorithms will still be simpler and faster with short  $M_i$  (e.g. one machine word) than with long ones. The simplest approach is just to sample at random and then reject if  $GCD(M_i, x_i) \neq 1$ .

However, this method has a significant disadvantage: it requires precomputing and storing a list of large numbers  $[\![\theta_i]\!]_{i=1}^n$ . We are also concerned that the use of small secrets  $x_i$  may be vulnerable to template attacks.

<span id="page-4-1"></span>**Improved CRT sieve** However, we observe that it is not required to take  $\theta_i \equiv 1 \mod M_i$ . Indeed, it is only required that  $\theta_i$  is coprime to  $M_i$ , and divisible by each  $M_j$  for  $j \neq i$ . So we can instead take  $\theta_i := M/M_i$ , avoiding the need to store it. That is, we can take

$$x \leftarrow \left(\sum x_i \cdot (M/M_i)\right) \mod M$$
 where each  $x_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/M_i)^*$ .

<span id="page-4-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> They need not be cryptographically indistinguishable from uniform. In practice, a wide variety of not-quite-uniform distributions are used [SNS<sup>+</sup>16]. This seems to be sufficient so long as (p, q) are close enough to uniform and are uncorrelated [NSS<sup>+</sup>17].

{5}------------------------------------------------

In fact, we can avoid the division by computing the sum iteratively, as shown in Algorithm [3.](#page-5-0) This novel algorithm is at least as fast as the Joye-Paillier-Vaudenay version, but does not require storage of <sup>J</sup>θ<sup>i</sup><sup>K</sup> n i"1 .

#### Algorithm 3 Improved sampling from pZ{Mq ˚ using CRT (new)

```
1: procedure Sample(JMiK
                        n
                        i"1)
2: x Ð 0
3: M Ð 1
4: for i " 1 to n do
5: xi
          $ÐpZ{Miq
                  ˚
6: x Ð px ¨ Mi ` xi ¨ Mq mod pM ¨ Miq
7: M Ð M ¨ Mi
8: end for
9: return x
10: end procedure
```

We can use a similar technique to improve the Next algorithm, so that it is randomized to deter side-channel attacks. We can do this by choosing a random M<sup>i</sup> , sampling y<sup>i</sup> \$ÐpZ{Miq ˚, and returning

$$x \cdot (y_i \cdot (M/M_i) + M_i) \mod M$$
.

This works because the factor y<sup>i</sup> ¨ pM{Miq ` M<sup>i</sup> is always coprime to M:

- It is congruent to y<sup>i</sup> ¨ pM{Miq mod M<sup>i</sup> , and this value is coprime to M<sup>i</sup> by construction.
- It is congruent to M<sup>i</sup> mod M<sup>j</sup> for j ‰ i, and again M<sup>i</sup> is coprime to M<sup>j</sup> .

Joye-Paillier sieve with Carmichael's λ However, we are still concerned that the small domain of x<sup>i</sup> may lead to template attacks. It would be preferable to implement a sieve that uses only large random numbers.

Joye and Paillier suggest to sample from pZ{Mq ˚ as shown in [\[JP06,](#page-20-2) Figure 4], reproduced in Algorithm [4.](#page-6-0) This algorithm is based on Carmichael's observation that for each prime q e |M,

$$x^{\lambda(M)} \mod q^e = \begin{cases} 0 \text{ if } q | x \\ 1 \text{ otherwise} \end{cases}$$

So the update x Ð x ` r ¨ p1 ´ x λpMq q only affects x mod q e if q|x.

The sampling algorithm is somewhat slow: 2.15 iterations are required in expectation, and each iteration requires an exponentiation mod M. If M is again the 1019-bit product of the first 131 primes, then λpMq has 276 bits. Therefore overall sampling from pZ{Mq ˚ is about 58% as expensive as a Fermat or Miller-Rabin primality test of the same size, so sampling independently before every primality test would cause a noticeable slowdown. Because the performance decreases as λpMq increases, this method works best if M has only small prime factors; or at least if for all primes q|M, q ´ 1 has only small prime factors.

{6}------------------------------------------------

### **Algorithm 4** Sampling from $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ using Carmichael's $\lambda$ [JP06]

```
1: procedure Sample(M, \lambda(M))
           x \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}/M
 2:
           z \leftarrow 1 - x^{\lambda(M)} \mod M
 3:
           while z \neq 0 do
 4:
                r \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}/M
 5:
                x \leftarrow x + rz
 6:
                z \leftarrow 1 - x^{\lambda(M)} \mod M
 7:
           end while
 8:
           return x
 9:
10: end procedure
```

### <span id="page-6-1"></span>2.3 New sampling algorithm with quadratic residuosity

Here we describe a novel sieving algorithm using quadratic residuosity. We expect this method to resist side-channel attacks because it performs only a few calculations, and all intermediate values have high entropy.

Let M be an odd number; a good choice is the product of the first n odd primes, but we can use any odd number of known factorization. Let u be chosen such that -u is a quadratic nonresidue mod each prime q|M. Call such a u "valid" mod M. If the factorization of M is known, then it is straightforward to find valid u using the Chinese Remainder Theorem, as we will soon describe. The values (M, u) can be precomputed, and stored in read-only memory (ROM) on the device that needs to generate primes, or they can be calculated on the fly to save ROM.

Then for all  $r \in \mathbb{Z}$ , by definition  $r^2 \not\equiv -u \mod \operatorname{each} q | M$ . So  $r^2 + u$  is not divisible by any q | M: it is coprime to M. With (M, u) precomputed, the prime generation algorithm can very easily sample from  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ , simply by choosing r at random and computing  $r^2 + u \mod M$ . The same technique could be used with any other polynomial function that does not have a root modulo any q | M, such as  $ur^2 + 1$ , but  $r^2 + u$  is simple and requires only one multiplication.

These samples are not uniformly random: in particular, they cover only about half of  $(\mathbb{Z}/q^e)^*$  for each  $q^e||M$ . So if M is divisible by n distinct primes, the range is only slightly more than a  $2^{-n}$  fraction of  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ . But we will show that the product of several independent samples approaches a uniformly random distribution on  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ . Since prime generation algorithms usually do not require perfectly uniform output, a product of between 4 and 10 such samples will be close enough to uniform for most practical purposes, as shown in Figure 1. We suggest using 6 samples, which loses less than 0.11 bits of min-entropy for all M.

If a system is equipped with a fast random number generator, then the new sieving technique is fast enough (11 multiplies mod M for 6 samples, compared to several hundred for Algorithm 4) that we do not need to use an update function Next(x). We can just choose a fresh sample x every time. However, if the random number generator is somewhat slow, we can set Next(x) =  $x \cdot (y^2 + u)$  mod M,

{7}------------------------------------------------

where y is a fresh random sample. This improves on Nextpxq " 2x mod M: it is more uniform, and it mitigates side-channel leakage related to x. This version is shown in Algorithm [5.](#page-7-0) Note that Line [6](#page-7-0) guarantees that p is odd and coprime to M, and that p P rL ¨ 2s, L ¨ 2s ` 2M ´ 1s.

## Algorithm 5 Prime generation with novel sieving algorithm (new)

```
1: procedure PrimeGen(L, H, s, t) Ź Generate a nearly random prime in
   rL ¨ 2s, H ¨ 2ss
2: Let M be odd of known factorization, such that M ă H ´ L but only slightly.
3: Choose u so that ´u is a QNR mod all odd primes dividing M.
4: x Ð
          ś6
            j"1
               pr
                2
                j ` uq mod M, where each rj
                                          $Ð Z{M.
5: for i = 1 to t do
6: p Ð L ¨ 2s ` p2x ` M ´ L ¨ 2s mod 2Mq
7: α
          $Ðr0, s ´ 1s
8: p Ð p ` 2Mα
9: if p is prime then return p
10: r
          $Ð Z{M
11: x Ð x ¨ pr
                 2 ` uq mod M
12: end for
13: return Failure
14: end procedure
```

Note also that it is easy to sample r Ð Z{M with a high degree of uniformity. Simply set R to be a power of 2 (or of the machine's word size) such that R ą 2 64 ¨ M (or an even larger bound); choose r \$Ðr0, R ´ 1s; and then reduce r mod M.

Variants With M odd, this approach works with no modifications when using power-of-2 Montgomery multiplication and Montgomery reduction mod M: if x is coprime to M, then so is MontReducepxq. Before primality testing, x can be made odd, or 3 mod 4 for easier Miller-Rabin implementation, by adding a suitable multiple of M.

On systems where modular multiplication does not use Montgomery reduction, the modulus 2M can be used instead, and the candidates can then be guaranteed to be odd. Specifically, we can sample candidate primes in the residue class

$$\prod_{i=1}^{k} (2(r_i^2 + u) + M) \mod 2M.$$

Likewise, x can be constrained to be 3 mod 4. Constrain u to be 1 mod 4, and sample candidate primes in the residue class

$$-\prod_{i=1}^{k} ((2r_i)^2 + u) \mod 4M.$$

{8}------------------------------------------------

Or again, we can sample x from  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$  as usual and then test (4x+cM) mod 4M for primality, where  $c \in \{1,3\}$  is chosen such that  $cM \equiv 3 \mod 4$ . The same techniques can be used to ensure that  $x \equiv 2 \mod 3$ , which is required for RSA with e = 3.

Uniformity mod M Algorithm 5 draws samples from the distribution

$$\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u} := \prod_{i=1}^{k} (x_i^2 + u) \mod M : x_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} [0, M).$$

How close is  $\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u}$  to the uniform distribution  $\mathcal{U}_M$  on  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ ? We will bound the maximum difference in probability to sample each x mod a prime power:

$$\|\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u} - \mathcal{U}_{q^e}\|_{\infty} := \max_{x \in (\mathbb{Z}/q^e)^*} |\Pr[\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u} = x] - \Pr[\mathcal{U}_{q^e} = x]|$$

This in turn will allow us to bound the  $L_1$  distance

$$\|\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u} - \mathcal{U}_M\|_1 := \sum_{x \in (\mathbb{Z}/M)^*} |\Pr[\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u} = x] - \Pr[\mathcal{U}_M = x]|$$

$$\leq \sum_{q^e \mid \mid M} \phi(q^e) \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u} - \mathcal{U}_{q^e}\|_{\infty}$$

and the min-entropy loss

$$\delta H_{\infty} := \max_{x \in (\mathbb{Z}/M)^*} \frac{\Pr[\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u} = x]}{\Pr[\mathcal{U}_{M} = x]}$$

$$\leq \sum_{q^e \mid \mid M} \frac{\phi(q^e) \cdot ||\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u} - \mathcal{U}_{q^e}||_{\infty}}{\ln 2}$$

These three measures do not depend on which u is chosen, so long as it is valid mod M. In practice, min-entropy loss is probably the most relevant: if the adversary can break a single RSA key with probability  $\epsilon$  when  $p \leftarrow \mathcal{U}_M$ , then it will succeed with probability at most  $\epsilon \cdot 2^{\delta H_{\infty}}$  when  $p \leftarrow \mathcal{D}_{M,k,u}$ .

We can bound the  $L_1$  distance using the following theorem, which we prove Appendix A:

**Theorem 1 (Uniformity of**  $\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u}$ ). Let M be a positive odd integer, let u be valid mod M, and let  $k \ge 4$ . Let  $\mathcal{U}_M$  be the uniform distribution on  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ . Let

$$\epsilon_{M,k} := \sum_{\text{prime } q|M} \left(\frac{2}{\sqrt{q}}\right)^{\lfloor k/2 \rfloor}.$$

Then

$$\|\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u} - \mathcal{U}_M\|_1 < \epsilon_{M,k} \quad and \quad \delta H_\infty < \frac{\epsilon_{M,k}}{\ln 2}.$$

{9}------------------------------------------------

Note that for k > 6, the sum converges for all primes q, so it allows us to prove a bound that does not depend on M.

For concrete (M,k) this theorem is somewhat loose, so we also took an empirical approach to calculate the  $L_{\infty}$  distance. For this approach, we calculated the distribution  $\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u}$  for  $k \in \{1,2\}$  with M the product of the first 200 or 1000 odd primes. Then for  $3 \leq k \leq 10$ , we were additionally able to extend the bound to powers of those primes using equation (5) from the proof of Theorem 1; the bound from this equation does not converge for  $k \leq 2$ . Theorem 1 itself then bounds the maximum additional distance that can be seen with even larger M. The result is shown in Figure 1.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>

|    | First 200 odd primes |                     | First 1000 odd primes |                     | All larger primes |                     |
|----|----------------------|---------------------|-----------------------|---------------------|-------------------|---------------------|
| k  | $L_1$                | $\delta H_{\infty}$ | $L_1$                 | $\delta H_{\infty}$ | $L_1$             | $\delta H_{\infty}$ |
| 1  | 2                    | 197.3305            | 2                     | 996.9990            | -                 | -                   |
| 2  | 1.4362               | 29.1962             | 1.6889                | 65.6709             | _                 | -                   |
| 3  | 2                    | 4.6741              | 2                     | 5.6428              | -                 | _                   |
| 4  | 0.5510               | 0.7963              | 0.5659                | 0.8164              | _                 | -                   |
| 5  | 0.1252               | 0.1806              | 0.1255                | 0.1810              | _                 | -                   |
| 6  | 0.0453               | 0.0653              | 0.0453                | 0.0653              | 0.02989           | 0.04312             |
| 7  | 0.0157               | 0.0226              | 0.0157                | 0.0226              | _                 | -                   |
| 8  | 0.0058               | 0.0084              | 0.0058                | 3 0.0084            | 0.00022           | 0.00031             |
| 9  | 0.0023               | 0.0033              | 0.0023                |                     | _                 | -                   |
| 10 | 0.0010               | 0.0015              | 0.0010                | 0.0015              | $3.1\cdot10^{-6}$ | $4.5\cdot10^{-6}$   |

**Fig. 1.** Bounds on  $L_1$  distance and min-entropy loss between  $\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u}$  and  $\mathcal{U}_M$ . For  $k \geq 3$ , this includes any power of the given primes, but for  $k \in \{1,2\}$  it only includes the first power. The "all larger primes" column is a bound for  $M = \prod q_i^{e_i}$  where all the prime factors  $q_i$  are beyond the first thousand odd primes; the bound in Theorem 1 converges for even  $k \geq 6$ . Note that the  $L_1$  distance cannot be greater than 2.

.

**Choosing** M The value of M is relatively unconstrained, beyond being odd and of known factorization. If p is random in some range and is coprime to M, then it is prime with probability about  $M/(\phi(M) \ln p)$ , or twice that if M is odd and p is made odd before testing. For efficiency, M should be chosen as a multiple of the first several odd primes, so that  $M/\phi(M)$  is as large as possible. But suppose we wish to generate primes in an interval [L, H]. We could generate M by first taking, say,  $M_1 < (H-L)/2^{32}$  as a product of the first n odd primes, and then calculating

$$M = M_1 \cdot \left\lfloor \frac{H - L}{2M_1} \right\rfloor.$$

This would result in an M very close to (H-L)/2, so that adding  $2M \cdot \alpha$  can be skipped, and the distribution would still be close to uniform on [L, H]. Or we

{10}------------------------------------------------

could choose M such that (H-L)/(2M) is very nearly a power of 2, so that at least sampling  $\alpha$  is easier. This improvement is incorporated into Algorithm 5. The flexibility in M is an improvement on the Joye-Paillier sieve, where M should be chosen smooth so that  $\lambda(M)$  is small.

Another option is to follow Joye-Paillier by setting M somewhat smaller than (H-L)/2, and then adjust L and H to be multiples of M. In that case,  $\alpha$  is not typically chosen from a power-of-2 range, but subtracting  $2L \mod M$  can be skipped.

When generating RSA keys, the range is usually chosen as

$$[L,H] = [2^{(b-1)/2}, 2^{b/2} - 1]$$

for some even integer b. That way, if  $L \leq p, q \leq H$ , then  $2^{b-1} \leq p \cdot q < 2^b$ ; that is, N = pq has exactly b bits. To support this case, we can set M to slightly less than (H - L)/2 for the lowest supported value of b. For higher values, H - L is very nearly a power of 2 times M. This makes the sieve efficient in both cases. This technique is similar to [JP06, Figure 5].

**Choosing** u We must choose a valid u, meaning one such that -u is a quadratic nonresidue mod each prime q|M. This can be performed by finding such a  $u_q$  mod each q, and then combining these using the CRT. However, we do not need the full CRT, because we do not care exactly what u is mod q. It is sufficient to calculate

$$u = \sum_{q^e||M} u_p \cdot (M/q^e)^2 \mod M$$

where each  $u_q$  is a quadratic nonresidue mod q. Then for each q|M,

$$-u \equiv -u_p \cdot k_p^2 \mod q$$
 for some nonzero  $k_q$ ,

so u is also a quadratic nonresidue mod q. This u may also be calculated iteratively, much as in Algorithm 3. For each  $q \equiv 3 \mod 4$ , we can take  $u_q = 1$ .

It is also an interesting question to choose u as small as possible. This issue is discussed in Appendix B.

Supporting multiple parameter sets with less storage If a device supports key generation for multiple sizes, it is preferable (but not necessary) to use a specific M for each size. That is, use larger values of M to generate larger primes, so that more small divisors can be sieved out. The parameters could be stored separately for each M, but there is an opportunity to save space as the larger M values should be (at least nearly) divisible by the smaller ones. So we can sample mod  $M_1$  for the smallest supported parameter size, mod  $M_1 \cdot M_2$  for the next size, and in general mod  $M = \prod_{i=1}^n M_i$  for the nth smallest size or tier of sizes.

There are a few different options for how to do this. The simplest is to store a u which is valid mod all the  $M_i$ , and thus mod their product. The u

{11}------------------------------------------------

value can be (Montgomery) reduced modulo M before use. It is also possible to store a separate  $u_i$  (or reduce u separately) mod each  $M_i$ ; we could then sample separately mod each  $M_i$  and combine them into one sample mod M using Section 2.2. This is likely faster for the first sample due to smaller multiplications, but slower for the Next function if it is used.

Or we could combine the parameters as

$$M := \prod_{i=1}^{n} M_i, \quad u := \sum_{i=1}^{n} u_i \cdot (M/M_i)^2 \mod M$$

and then sample using only the QR sieve mod M.

### 2.4 Applications

Generating primes for RSA keys Our new sieve simplifies finding primes in a particular range such as  $[2^{(b-1)/2}, 2^b]$ , which is the slowest step in RSA key generation. Previous work discusses efficient generation of RSA keys once the prime generation step is done [JP03].

One additional issue with RSA key generation is that we must have  $e \nmid p-1$ . When e=3 this means that  $p\equiv 2 \mod 3$ , which can be accommodated as discussed in Section 2.3. Otherwise it can be accomplished by rejection sampling. Or if e is coprime to M, one could sample  $x \leftarrow (\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$  and  $y \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}/e$  such that both y and yM-1 are coprime to e; and then set the candidate prime to  $p \leftarrow x \cdot e + y \cdot M$ .

Generating DSA moduli, safe primes and strong primes Some standards require generation of primes with specific properties, such as "strong primes" where p+1 and/or p-1 have large prime factors. Either of our sieve methods can be used to replace the g function in [JPV00, Figures 8, 12] to generate DSA moduli and strong primes respectively. These both require sampling candidate primes which are congruent to  $a \mod m$  for certain (a, m) with m coprime to M. In particular, DSA moduli are congruent to  $1 \mod 2q$ . We can proceed by computing  $\bar{m} = am^{-1} \mod M$ , and then to sample values  $x \mod M$ . We can then compute candidate primes  $p \equiv (x - \bar{m})m + a \mod Mb$ . By construction, these are congruent to  $a \mod m$ , and to  $xm \mod M$ . If m and m are coprime, then m is uniformly random in  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ .

Generating "safe primes" p=2q+1, for which q is also prime, is more difficult if we wish to sieve both p and q. However, our CRT-based sieve can be adapted easily enough to match [JPV00, Figure 10]. Joye et al. solve the CRT equations  $x \equiv x_i \mod M_i$  as

$$x \leftarrow \sum_{i=1}^{n} x_i \cdot \theta_i$$
 where  $\theta_i \mod M_j = \begin{cases} 1 \text{ if } i = j \\ 0 \text{ if } i \neq j \end{cases}$ 

{12}------------------------------------------------

Joye et al. rejection sample each  $x_i$  such that  $x_i$  and  $2x_i+1$  are both in  $(\mathbb{Z}/M_i)^*$ . We instead compute

$$x \leftarrow \sum_{i=1}^{n} x_i \cdot \theta_i \text{ where } \theta_i = \prod_{j \neq i} M_j$$

so we need  $x_i$  and  $2(x_i \cdot \theta_i) + 1$  both to be in  $(\mathbb{Z}/M_i)^*$ .

**Blinding inversions mod** M The sieve can be used for techniques other than prime generation. For example, if for some algorithm we must invert a value x modulo a public constant M, we can use this technique to generate a nearly-uniform r which is coprime to M. We can then compute  $x^{-1} \equiv r \cdot (rx)^{-1}$  mod M to mitigate side-channel attacks on the inversion process.

# 3 RSA-CRT without $q^{-1} \mod p$

Let (N, e) be an RSA public key. The RSA private permutation computes  $m = x^d \mod N$ , where  $d \equiv e^{-1} \mod \lambda(N)$ . However, since the party with the private key also knows the factorization N = pq, it is more efficient to compute  $m_p = x^{d_p} \mod p$ , where  $d_p \equiv e^{-1} \mod p - 1$ , and likewise with q. This information may be combined using the Chinese Remainder Theorem (CRT):

$$m = ((m_p - m_q) \cdot q^{-1} \mod p) \cdot q + m_q.$$

This technique is called RSA-CRT. The RSA-CRT computation requires  $q^{-1}$  mod p, which is typically stored as part of the private key; it can also be computed when the key is loaded, but this has performance and potentially side-channel problems [CAB20].

CRT could also be performed as

$$m \equiv (m_p \cdot q^{-1} \mod p) \cdot q + (m_q \cdot p^{-1} \mod q) \cdot p \mod N$$

but this appears to require even more information. However, there is a trick to compute  $m_p \cdot q^{-1} \mod p$  without knowing  $q^{-1} \mod p$ , which is based on the multiplicative masking in [EL10]. Choose any  $y \in (\mathbb{Z}/p)^*$  and let

<span id="page-12-0"></span>
$$\alpha := (xy)^{e-1} \mod p$$

$$\beta := (\alpha \cdot y)^{p-1-d_p} \equiv (\alpha \cdot y)^{-1/e} \mod p$$

$$m_{p,y} := \beta \cdot x \equiv x^{1/e} \cdot y^{-1} \mod p$$
(1)

This computes  $m_{p,y}$  using one long exponentiation and one short one, and three multiplications. Setting y=q gives a way to compute RSA-CRT without any inversions.

{13}------------------------------------------------

For multiplicative masking we can instead set y = rq where  $r \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/N)^*$ , so that:<sup>3</sup>

$$m_{p,rq} \equiv x^d \cdot (rq)^{-1} \mod p.$$

We can compute  $m_{q,rp}$  analogously, and combine to calculate  $mr^{-1} \mod N$ . That is,

$$m \equiv r \cdot (m_{p,rq} \cdot q + m_{q,rp} \cdot p) \mod N.$$

This allows us to compute RSA-CRT decryption with message blinding, using only  $(p, q, e, d_p, d_q)$ . The technique is compatible with other blinding techniques for  $(p, q, d_p, d_q)$ , such as [EL10], and for techniques which skip the step of converting to Montgomery form.

Our technique generalizes to multi-prime with  $N = \prod p_i$ , where the reconstruction equation is

$$m \equiv \sum \left( m_{p_i} \cdot \left( \frac{N}{p_i} \right)^{-1} \mod p_i \right) \cdot \frac{N}{p_i} \mod N.$$

The inner term  $m_{p_i} \cdot (N/p_i)^{-1} \mod p_i$  can be computed using our blinding and inversion technique. Here  $N/p_i$  is perhaps better written as  $\prod_{j \neq i} p_j$ .

# 3.1 Inverse-free RSA mod $p^kq$

Another fast variant of RSA uses  $N = p^k q$  [Tak98]. Our inversion-free CRT technique applies here as well, apparently trivially: we can use equation (1) to compute  $x^{d \mod \phi(p^k)} \cdot (qr)^{-1} \mod p^k$ , and combine this with  $x^{d \mod \phi(q)} \cdot (p^k r)^{-1} \mod q$ .

However, the point of RSA mod  $p^kq$  is that  $x^d \mod p^k$  can be accelerated. Instead of computing  $x^d$  directly mod  $p^k$ , the technique is to calculate  $x^{d_p} \mod p$ , where  $d_p \equiv e^{-1} \mod p - 1$ . This gives a solution to the equation

$$m_1^e \equiv x \mod p^1,$$

which can then be iteratively lifted to a solution  $m_k^e \equiv x \mod p^k$  using Hensel's lemma. This means that the trivial application of our technique will perform poorly, and we still need to compute  $e^{-1} \mod p$  [Tak04].

We will instead compute  $x^d \cdot y^{-1}$ , by solving the equation

$$(ym)^e \equiv x \mod p^k,$$

again with Hensel lifting. Given a nonzero solution  $m_{\ell} \mod p^{\ell}$ , we can lift it to a solution  $m_{\ell+1} \mod p^{\ell+1}$  using the Hensel iteration

$$m_{\ell+1} \equiv m_{\ell} + \frac{x - (ym)_{\ell}^{e}}{e \cdot y^{e} \cdot m_{1}^{e-1} \mod p} \mod p^{\ell+1},$$

<span id="page-13-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> A random  $r \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}/N$  will be coprime to N with overwhelming probability. But if we wanted to be sure then we could reuse one of our sieve techniques.

{14}------------------------------------------------

whose denominator  $\delta := e \cdot y^e \cdot m_1^{e-1} \mod p$  is the derivative of  $(ym)^e$  with respect to m. We can do this in an inverse-free manner given  $m_1 = x^d \cdot y^{-1} \mod p$  and  $\delta^{-1} \mod p$ , where

$$\delta^{-1} \equiv (e \cdot y^e \cdot m_1^{e-1})^{-1} \mod p$$

$$\equiv (ym)^{1-e} \cdot (ye)^{-1} \mod p$$

$$\equiv x^{d \cdot (1-e)} \cdot (ye)^{-1} \mod p$$

$$\equiv x^{d-1} \cdot (ye)^{-1} \equiv x^d \cdot (yex)^{-1} \mod p$$

This value  $\delta^{-1} \equiv x^d \cdot (yex)^{-1} \mod p$  can be computed using the blinding and inversion method from equation (1), and from it we can compute  $m_1 \equiv x^d \cdot y^{-1} \equiv \delta^{-1} \cdot ex \mod p$ . As before, we can do this with y := qr for random r, to achieve a blinded, inverse-free CRT algorithm.

Thus, we can extend our technique to inverse-free RSA modulo general products of powers of primes.

#### <span id="page-14-0"></span>3.2 Generalized batching

Our inverse-free CRT technique was inspired by side-channel countermeasures, but it is a special case of a framework for inversion and root calculations [Ham12] including

$$(x,y) \rightarrow (x^{1/e}, y^{-1}) \mod p$$

when x and y are nonzero. We can do this by calculating

$$\alpha := (xy)^{e-1}$$

$$\beta := (\alpha \cdot y)^{-1/e} \equiv x^{1/e-1} \cdot y^{-1} \mod p$$

$$x^{1/e} \equiv \beta \cdot xy \mod p$$

$$y^{-1} \equiv \alpha \cdot \beta^e \mod p$$

This technique was proposed for elliptic curves, and to our knowledge has not been applied to RSA before. The principle is to consider the exponential lattice  $\mathcal{L}$  of expressions the form  $x^a \cdot y^b$  for  $a, b \in \mathbb{Z}$ . For more inputs, a higher-dimensional lattice may be used. The target expression(s) such as  $\{x^{1/e}, y^{-1}\}$  lie in a superlattice  $\mathcal{L}'$  of volume 1/e. If (as in this example)  $\mathcal{L}'/\mathcal{L}$  is one-dimensional, then we can find an element  $z \in \mathcal{L}'$ , such that  $\{x, y, z\}$  span  $\mathcal{L}'$ , the coefficients of z are either all positive or all negative, and the target element is spanned by  $\{x, y, z\}$  with (small) non-negative coefficients. Typically this is best done by giving z strictly negative coefficients, so that non-negative linear combinations of  $\{x, y, z\}$  cover all of  $\mathcal{L}'$ .

Then z can be computed by calculating  $\pm ez$  as a non-negative integer combination of  $\{x,y\}$ , and then applying the  $\pm 1/e$  map (or more generally, using the  $\pm k/e$  map for some integer k coprime to e) at the cost of a single large exponentiation. Since now  $\{x,y,z\}$  span the target expressions with small non-negative

{15}------------------------------------------------

coefficients, these targets can be calculated using only multiplications and small exponentiations.

This principle generalizes batch RSA [\[Fia90\]](#page-20-5), Montgomery's batched inversion, and batch inversion and square root [\[Ham12\]](#page-20-4). It directly provides an inversion-free variant of batch RSA: for example, batching a message m<sup>3</sup> " x 1{3 3 and m<sup>5</sup> " x 1{5 5 can be calculated as:

$$z := (x_3^5 \cdot x_5^3)^{-1/15} = x_3^{-1/3} \cdot x_5^{-1/5}; \quad m_3 = z^5 \cdot x_3^2 \cdot x_5; \quad m_5 = z^9 \cdot x_3^3 \cdot x_5^2.$$

This can be further optimized with an appropriate addition chain, and possibly by choosing a different generator z of the lattice.

These techniques can batch multiple small roots and/or inverses using one large exponentiation if and only if the roots are of relatively prime degrees. Otherwise the quotient L 1 {L has multiple generators, so while a batching technique might provide a speedup in some cases, it will require more than one large exponentiation.

We note that batching techniques can also be used to avoid conversions to Montgomery form. The Montgomery form of a number x is x ¨ R mod p for some R. Multiplication and exponentiation are typically faster when the inputs are given in Montgomery form. Division by R mod p is fast: it is Montgomery reduction. But multiplication by R mod p requires Barrett reduction, which is slower and more complex in hardware. However, consider that x is itself the Montgomery form of another number ˆx :" x{R mod p. So we can compute

$$x^{1/e} = (\hat{x} \cdot R)^{1/e} = (\hat{x}^{e-1}/R)^{-1/e} \cdot \hat{x}$$

where the input ˆx is given by its Montgomery form x, and now we are only dividing by R instead of multiplying by it. This technique may not be worthwhile by itself, because it requires an extra short exponentiation, but it is essentially free if batching is already in use. As a special case of this, random blinding values can be assumed to already be in Montgomery form.

# 4 RSA with compressed private keys

Our new sieving and RSA-CRT algorithms give an interesting improvement to compressed RSA private keys for devices with limited nonvolatile storage. This can be done easily enough just by replacing the random numbers in the usual RSA key generation algorithm with a pseudorandom generator, and storing only the secret seed for that generator. The private key can then be regenerated from the seed whenever it is needed. But RSA key generation is notoriously slow, so this compression mechanism is usually unacceptable. However, if we record hints indicating on which iterations h<sup>p</sup> resp h<sup>q</sup> we found p resp q, then p and q can be reconstructed very quickly, skipping all the primality tests. This is easiest if each iteration samples an independent candidate p, so that only the hpth and hqth iterations must be performed to reconstruct pp, qq.

{16}------------------------------------------------

This technique could have been used with other RSA key generation algorithms, but at a significant cost in efficiency. Algorithm 1 would suffer from long key generation time. The Joye-Paillier-Vaudenay CRT sieve requires large ROM storage, whereas their Carmichael  $\lambda$  sieve requires extra large exponentiations in order to use the key. But with our Algorithm 3 or Algorithm 5, the performance penalty to generating and to use the key is very small. With previous techniques, we also would have needed to avoid RSA-CRT or else compute  $q^{-1}$  mod p, but with inverse-free RSA-CRT we can also mitigate that performance cost. The other nontrivial step, computing d from e, has a shortcut for small prime e [JP03].

We work through the details with Algorithm 5. In the key generation algorithm we can replace the random number generator with a pseudorandom function  $F_k(i, h, j; R)$ . Its arguments are:

- the secret seed k;
- a flag  $i \in \{0,1\}$  indicating whether we're generating p or q (or from a larger domain for multi-prime RSA);
- a hint  $h \in [0, t-1]$  where t is the maximum number of attempts to find a prime in key generation (e.g.  $t = \ln \frac{\phi(M)}{\epsilon \cdot M} \cdot \ln p$  for a failure rate near  $\epsilon$ );
- a counter  $j \in [0, m]$  where m is the number of samples required for uniformity (e.g. m = 6);
- and the size R of the desired range.

 $F_k$  should return a uniformly pseudorandom integer in [0, R-1]. This enables us to sample pseudorandom integers in  $[L \cdot 2s, H \cdot 2s]$  which are coprime to M using the SieveSample routine shown in Algorithm 6.

The secret primes (p, q) can then be represented by the parameters (L, H, s, e), the secret seed k and the hints  $h_p$  and  $h_q$ . The private key can be reconstructed by calling SieveSample:

$$p = \text{SieveSample}(L, H, s, k, 0, h_p)$$
 and  $q = \text{SieveSample}(L, H, s, k, 1, h_q)$ .

The other values in the private key,  $d \mod p - 1$  and  $\mod q - 1$ , can be reconstructed efficiently using Arazi's lemma and Hensel's lemma as shown in [JP03], reproduced as DMod. A complete compressed RSA algorithm is shown in Algorithm 6. If the negligible probability of failure from line 37 is unacceptable, we can instead generate  $(p,q) \equiv 3 \mod 4$ , and implement that line using Algorithm 5 with u=1.

Suppose we wish to generate 1536-bit primes for RSA-3072, roughly corresponding to 128-bit security. If M is divisible by the first 180 primes so that  $\phi(M)/M \approx 0.08$ , then each candidate will be prime with probability

$$\Pr[\text{prime}] \approx \frac{M}{1536 \cdot \phi(M) \cdot \ln 2} \approx \frac{1}{85}.$$

If we set  $t = 2^{16}$ , then Compressed RSA will fail to find a suitable p or q with probability about  $2 \cdot e^{-t \cdot \Pr[\text{prime}]} < 2^{-1111}$ . So a 3072-bit private RSA key may

{17}------------------------------------------------

```
Algorithm 6 RSA with compressed private keys
```

```
1: procedure SieveSample(L, H, s, k, i, h) \triangleright Sample a value in [L \cdot 2s, H \cdot 2s] using
     F_k(i,h,\cdot)
         Let M be a multiple of many small primes, such that M < H - L but only
 2:
    slightly.
         Let u be odd such that -u is a QNR mod all odd primes dividing M.
 3:
         x \leftarrow \prod_{i=1}^6 (F_k(i, h, j; M)^2 + u) \mod M.
 4:
         \alpha \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} F_k(i, h, 0; s)
 5:
         return p \leftarrow L \cdot 2s + (2x + M - L \cdot 2s \mod 2M) + 2\alpha M
 6:
 7: end procedure
 8: procedure Compressed RSAK EYGEN (L, H, s, e, t, k)
         for h_p = 0 to t - 1 do
 9:
              p \leftarrow \text{SIEVESAMPLE}(L, H, s, k, 0, h_p)
10:
              if e \nmid p-1 and p is prime then goto line 14
11:
          end for
12:
          return Failure
13:
14:
          for h_q = 0 to t - 1 do
15:
              q \leftarrow \text{SIEVESAMPLE}(L, H, s, k, 1, h_q)
16:
              if e \nmid q-1 and q is prime then goto line 20
17:
          end for
18:
19:
          return Failure
20:
          return public key (p \cdot q, e) and compressed private key (L, H, s, e; k, h_p, h_q)
21:
22: end procedure
23: procedure DMoD(e, \phi, H) \triangleright Computes e^{-1} \mod \phi < H if e is prime and e \nmid \phi
          R \leftarrow 2^{|\lg H|}
24:
          \bar{e} \leftarrow 1
25:
                                                                              \rightharpoonup Compute \bar{e} \leftarrow e^{-1} \mod R
          for i = 1 to \lceil \lg \lg R \rceil do
26:
              \bar{e} \leftarrow \bar{e} \cdot (2 - e \cdot \bar{e}) \mod 2^{2^i}
27:
          end for
                                                                 \triangleright In practice, share \bar{e} for the two calls
28:
         return (1 + (-\phi^{e-2} \mod e) \cdot \phi) \cdot \bar{e} \mod R
29:
                                                                                               ⊳ Arazi's lemma
30: end procedure
31: procedure Compressed RSAP RIVATE((L, H, s, e; k, h_p, h_q), x)
          p \leftarrow \text{SIEVESAMPLE}(L, H, s, k, 0, h_p)
32:
          q \leftarrow \text{SIEVESAMPLE}(L, H, s, k, 1, h_q)
33:
          d_p \leftarrow \text{DMod}(e, p - 1, H \cdot 2s)
34:
          d_q \leftarrow \text{DMod}(e, q - 1, H \cdot 2s)
35:
36:
          N \leftarrow pq
                                             \rightharpoonup \operatorname{Or} r \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}/N works with overwhelming probability
          r \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/N)^*
37:
         \alpha_p \leftarrow (qrx)^{e-1} \mod p
m_p \leftarrow (qr \cdot \alpha_p)^{p-1-d_p} \mod p
38:
39:
          \alpha_q \leftarrow (prx)^{e-1} \mod q
40:
         m_q \leftarrow (pr \cdot \alpha_q)^{q-1-d_q} \mod q
41:
         return rx \cdot (m_p \cdot q + m_q \cdot p) \mod N
                                                                                      \rightharpoonup \operatorname{Returns} x^{1/e} \mod N
42:
43: end procedure
```

{18}------------------------------------------------

be compressed to 160 bits with no loss of security: a 128-bit key and two 16-bit hints.

To prevent mistakes, it may also be useful to store ps, eq, or to make the pseudorandom function F depend on them, or both. In hardware deployed to a hostile environment, it is also worth adding fault countermeasures, for example a checksum on pp, q, dp, dqq, to prevent fault attacks [\[ABF](#page-20-12)`03].

If k is derived — for example from hardware constants, a master key or a PUF — then only h<sup>p</sup> and h<sup>q</sup> need to be stored. If k can be chosen by the generator (i.e. it is not a derived key), then storage requirements can be further reduced by removing hp, and instead re-randomizing k in the first loop. Various other arrangements can be used to trade hint size for key generation performance, such as using a shorter hint h<sup>q</sup> and incrementing h<sup>p</sup> if no prime q can be found.

Combining the new RSA-CRT technique with Algorithm [6,](#page-17-0) we can implement RSA efficiently with compressed private keys. For RSA-3072 with e " 65537, the calculations of pp, q, dp, dqq and the recovery of the final m costs:

- 11 multiplications mod M to sample p, and as many for q.
- 4 multiplications mod R, and several smaller ones, to compute d<sup>p</sup> and dq.
- 19 multiplications mod p, plus one long exponentiation mod p, to compute q ¨ r, α<sup>p</sup> Ð px ¨ qrq <sup>e</sup>´<sup>1</sup> and m<sup>p</sup> " pqr ¨ αpq <sup>p</sup>´1´d<sup>p</sup> ; and the same to compute mq.
- 2 integer multiplications and two multiplications mod N to calculate the final output m " x ¨ r ¨ pm<sup>p</sup> ¨ q ` m<sup>q</sup> ¨ pq mod N.

Counting the wider multiplications mod N as four, the additional cost of private key compression and blinding together is around 72 large multiplications (mostly squarings) plus a few smaller ones. The exponentiations mod p and q collectively cost some 12882 or 3715 multiplications with the Montgomery ladder and sliding window approaches, respectively, meaning that the additional cost is between 0.6% and 3% of the total runtime.

The same techniques generalize naturally to multi-prime RSA and RSA mod p k q.

# 5 Performance

We tested our new techniques by modifying OpenSSL 1.1.1j to support the Joye-Paillier sieve, the quadratic residuosity sieve, inversion-free RSA and compressed private keys. We tested on a 2.3 GHz Intel Core i3-6100U processor at 2.3 GHz; this processor is convenient for benchmarks because it does not use TurboBoost. The OpenSSL big number API does not exactly match our algorithms, and we adjusted our algorithms to match its API. In particular, we didn't use Hensel lifting, and we were not able to avoid many conversions into and out of Montgomery form. The results are shown in Table [1.](#page-19-1) Note that prime generation is a Poisson process, so those timings have an enormous variance and the difference between the Carmichael sieve and the new QR sieve is not significant.

{19}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-19-1"></span>

| Operation                        | 1024-bit | 2048-bit | 3072-bit | 4096-bit |
|----------------------------------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| Primegen OpenSSL standard        | 26 M     | 143 M    | 400 M    | 950 M    |
| Primegen Carmichael sieve [JP06] | 6 M      | 60 M     | 257 M    | 802 M    |
| Primegen new QR sieve            | 6 M      | 58 M     | 251 M    | 731 M    |
| RSA-CRT sign standard            | 305 k    | 2077 k   | 6161 k   | 13992 k  |
| RSA-CRT sign inverse-free        | 412 k    | 2248 k   | 6420 k   | 14376 k  |
| RSA-CRT sign compressed          | 532 k    | 2403 k   | 6622 k   | 14644 k  |

Table 1. Performance comparison of new techniques; timings in thousands or millions of cycles (k or M). Prime generation is averaged over 2000 trials. Signatures are averaged over 100,000 trials: 1000 trials for each of 100 different keys, without outliers more than twice the mean removed. The same 100 keys are used for the standard, inverse-free and compressed versions.

#### 5.1 Discussion

OpenSSL's standard key generation uses trial division and not sieving, so a large performance increase is expected. As expected, Joye-Paillier sieve and quadratic residuosity sieve have similar performance.

The overhead from inverse-free and compressed signatures is larger than we expected, amounting to 4% and 7.5% respectively for RSA-3072. Part of this is due to adjusting our algorithms to the OpenSSL APIs, so the overhead might be smaller (or larger!) in an embedded environment. Even at 7.5% it might be worthwhile if nonvolatile memory is limited.

# 6 Future work

We leave to future work the task of evaluating the embedded performance, sidechannel resistance and fault resistance of these methods, as well as any application to post-quantum RSA [\[BHLV17,](#page-20-13)[Sch18\]](#page-21-10).

# 7 Acknowledgements

Special thanks to Denis Pochuev for feedback on RSA with p k ¨ q.

# 8 Intellectual property disclosure

Some of these techniques may be covered by US and/or international patents.

# References

<span id="page-19-0"></span>ABD`15. David Adrian, Karthikeyan Bhargavan, Zakir Durumeric, Pierrick Gaudry, Matthew Green, J. Alex Halderman, Nadia Heninger, Drew Springall, Emmanuel Thom´e, Luke Valenta, Benjamin VanderSloot, Eric Wustrow, Santiago Zanella-B´eguelin, and Paul Zimmermann. Imperfect forward secrecy:

{20}------------------------------------------------

- How Diffie-Hellman fails in practice. In Indrajit Ray, Ninghui Li, and Christopher Kruegel, editors, ACM CCS 2015, pages 5–17. ACM Press, October 2015.
- <span id="page-20-12"></span>ABF`03. Christian Aum¨uller, Peter Bier, Wieland Fischer, Peter Hofreiter, and Jean-Pierre Seifert. Fault attacks on RSA with CRT: Concrete results and practical countermeasures. In Burton S. Kaliski Jr., C¸ etin Kaya Ko¸c, and Christof Paar, editors, CHES 2002, volume 2523 of LNCS, pages 260–275. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2003.
- <span id="page-20-9"></span>AGTB19. Alejandro Cabrera Aldaya, Cesar Pereida Garc´ıa, Luis Manuel Alvarez Tapia, and Billy Bob Brumley. Cache-timing attacks on RSA key generation. IACR TCHES, 2019(4):213–242, 2019. [https://tches.iacr.org/](https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/TCHES/article/view/8350) [index.php/TCHES/article/view/8350](https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/TCHES/article/view/8350).
- <span id="page-20-7"></span>AM93. A Oliver L Atkin and Fran¸cois Morain. Elliptic curves and primality proving. Mathematics of Computation, 61(203):29–68, 1993.
- <span id="page-20-6"></span>Bar87. Paul Barrett. Implementing the Rivest Shamir and Adleman public key encryption algorithm on a standard digital signal processor. In Andrew M. Odlyzko, editor, Advances in Cryptology — CRYPTO' 86, pages 311–323, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1987. Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
- <span id="page-20-13"></span>BHLV17. Daniel J. Bernstein, Nadia Heninger, Paul Lou, and Luke Valenta. Postquantum RSA. In Tanja Lange and Tsuyoshi Takagi, editors, Post-Quantum Cryptography - 8th International Workshop, PQCrypto 2017, pages 311–329. Springer, Heidelberg, 2017.
- <span id="page-20-10"></span>CAB20. Alejandro Cabrera Aldaya and Billy Brumley. When one vulnerable primitive turns viral: Novel single-trace attacks on ECDSA and RSA. In CHES, volume 2020, 03 2020.
- <span id="page-20-8"></span>CC07. Christophe Clavier and Jean-S´ebastien Coron. On the implementation of a fast prime generation algorithm. In Pascal Paillier and Ingrid Verbauwhede, editors, CHES 2007, volume 4727 of LNCS, pages 443–449. Springer, Heidelberg, September 2007.
- <span id="page-20-0"></span>DH76. Whitfield Diffie and Martin E. Hellman. New directions in cryptography. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 22(6):644–654, 1976.
- <span id="page-20-11"></span>EL10. Nevine Maurice Ebeid and Rob Lambert. A new CRT-RSA algorithm resistant to powerful fault attacks. In WESS 2010, page 8. ACM, 2010.
- <span id="page-20-14"></span>Elk11. Noam D. Elkies. Sum of squares modulo a prime, 2011. [https://](https://mathoverflow.net/questions/69576/sum-of-squares-modulo-a-prime) [mathoverflow.net/questions/69576/sum-of-squares-modulo-a-prime](https://mathoverflow.net/questions/69576/sum-of-squares-modulo-a-prime).
- <span id="page-20-5"></span>Fia90. Amos Fiat. Batch RSA. In Gilles Brassard, editor, CRYPTO'89, volume 435 of LNCS, pages 175–185. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1990.
- <span id="page-20-4"></span>Ham12. Mike Hamburg. Fast and compact elliptic-curve cryptography. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2012/309, 2012. [http://eprint.iacr.org/2012/](http://eprint.iacr.org/2012/309) [309](http://eprint.iacr.org/2012/309).
- <span id="page-20-3"></span>JP03. Marc Joye and Pascal Paillier. GCD-free algorithms for computing modular inverses. In Colin D. Walter, C¸ etin Kaya Ko¸c, and Christof Paar, editors, CHES 2003, volume 2779 of LNCS, pages 243–253. Springer, Heidelberg, September 2003.
- <span id="page-20-2"></span>JP06. Marc Joye and Pascal Paillier. Fast generation of prime numbers on portable devices: An update. In Louis Goubin and Mitsuru Matsui, editors, CHES 2006, volume 4249 of LNCS, pages 160–173. Springer, Heidelberg, October 2006.
- <span id="page-20-1"></span>JPV00. Marc Joye, Pascal Paillier, and Serge Vaudenay. Efficient generation of prime numbers. In C¸ etin Kaya Ko¸c and Christof Paar, editors, CHES 2000, volume 1965 of LNCS, pages 340–354. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2000.

{21}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-21-1"></span>KG13. Cameron F. Kerry and Patrick D Gallagher. Digital signature standard (DSS). FIPS Pub 186-4, 2013. [https://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.](https://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4) [186-4](https://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4).
- <span id="page-21-5"></span>Mon85. Peter L Montgomery. Modular multiplication without trial division. Mathematics of computation, 44(170):519–521, 1985.
- <span id="page-21-9"></span>NSS`17. Mat´us Nemec, Marek S´ys, Petr Svenda, Dusan Klinec, and Vashek Matyas. The return of Coppersmith's attack: Practical factorization o f widely used RSA moduli. In Bhavani M. Thuraisingham, David Evans, Tal Malkin, and Dongyan Xu, editors, ACM CCS 2017, pages 1631–1648. ACM Press, October / November 2017.
- <span id="page-21-7"></span>PSW80. Carl Pomerance, John L Selfridge, and Samuel S Wagstaff. The pseudoprimes to 25 ¨ 10<sup>9</sup> . Mathematics of Computation, 35(151):1003–1026, 1980.
- <span id="page-21-6"></span>Rab80. Michael O Rabin. Probabilistic algorithm for testing primality. Journal of number theory, 12(1):128–138, 1980.
- <span id="page-21-0"></span>RSA78. Ronald L. Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Leonard M. Adleman. A method for obtaining digital signatures and public-key cryptosystems. Communications of the Association for Computing Machinery, 21(2):120–126, 1978.
- <span id="page-21-10"></span>Sch18. John M. Schanck. Multi-power post-quantum RSA. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/325, 2018. <https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/325>.
- <span id="page-21-8"></span>SNS`16. Petr Svenda, Mat´us Nemec, Peter Sekan, Rudolf Kvasnovsk´y, David Form´anek, David Kom´arek, and Vashek Maty´as. The million-key question - investigating the origins of RSA public keys. In Thorsten Holz and Stefan Savage, editors, USENIX Security 2016, pages 893–910. USENIX Association, August 2016.
- <span id="page-21-2"></span>Tak98. Tsuyoshi Takagi. Fast RSA-type cryptosystem modulo p k q. In Hugo Krawczyk, editor, CRYPTO'98, volume 1462 of LNCS, pages 318–326. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1998.
- <span id="page-21-3"></span>Tak04. Tsuyoshi Takagi. A fast RSA-type public-key primitive modulo p k q using Hensel lifting. IEICE transactions on fundamentals of electronics, communications and computer sciences, 87(1):94–101, 2004.
- <span id="page-21-12"></span>VOW99. Paul C Van Oorschot and Michael J Wiener. Parallel collision search with cryptanalytic applications. Journal of cryptology, 12(1):1–28, 1999.
- <span id="page-21-13"></span>Wag02. David Wagner. A generalized birthday problem. In Annual International Cryptology Conference, pages 288–304. Springer, 2002.

# <span id="page-21-4"></span>A proof of Theorem [1](#page-27-0)

Let's start with an easy lemma.

Lemma 1. Given two distributions D<sup>1</sup> and D<sup>2</sup> and a uniform distribution U on a group of size n, we have

<span id="page-21-11"></span>
$$\|\mathcal{D}_1 * \mathcal{D}_2 - \mathcal{U}\|_1 \leqslant \|\mathcal{D}_1 - \mathcal{U}\|_1 \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_2 - \mathcal{U}\|_1.$$

and

$$\|\mathcal{D}_1 * \mathcal{D}_2 - \mathcal{U}\|_{\infty} \leq n \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_1 - \mathcal{U}\|_{\infty} \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_2 - \mathcal{U}\|_{\infty}.$$

Proof. This is true for distributions if and only if it is true for stochastic functions. For i P t1, 2u, let F<sup>i</sup> :" D<sup>i</sup> ´ U as functions. Since it is the difference of 

{22}------------------------------------------------

two stochastic functions, each  $F_i$  sums to 0. Then

$$\mathcal{D}_1 * \mathcal{D}_2 = (\mathcal{U} + F_1) * (\mathcal{U} + F_2)$$
  
=  $\mathcal{U} * \mathcal{U} + \mathcal{U} * (F_1 + F_2) + F_1 * F_2$   
=  $\mathcal{U} + F_1 * F_2$ 

because  $F_1$  and  $F_2$  each sum to 0. Thus

$$\|\mathcal{D}_1 * \mathcal{D}_2 - \mathcal{U}\|_1 = \|F_1 * F_2\|_1 \leqslant \|F_1\|_1 * \|F_2\|_1 = \|\mathcal{D}_1 - \mathcal{U}\|_1 \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_2 - \mathcal{U}\|_1$$
. Likewise,

$$\|\mathcal{D}_1 * \mathcal{D}_2 - \mathcal{U}\|_{\infty} = \|F_1 * F_2\|_{\infty} \le n \cdot \|F_1\|_{\infty} * \|F_2\|_{\infty} = n \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_1 - \mathcal{U}\|_{\infty} \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_2 - \mathcal{U}\|_{\infty}$$
 as claimed.

We will next bound  $\mathcal{D}_{q,2,u}$ . The rough argument is that the probability of picking a particular  $z \in \mathbb{Z}/q$  is related to the number of solutions to a certain algebraic equation, which we can show is about the expected amount using the Hasse bound.

<span id="page-22-2"></span>**Lemma 2.** Let q be an odd prime. Then for each  $z \in (\mathbb{Z}/q)^*$ , we have

$$\left| \Pr[\mathcal{D}_{q,2,u} = z] - \frac{1}{q-1} \right| \le 2q^{-3/2}$$

That is,

$$\|\mathcal{D}_{q,2,u} - \mathcal{U}_q\|_{\infty} \leqslant 2q^{-3/2}.$$

*Proof.* Let q be an odd prime, and let's bound  $\Pr[\mathcal{D}_{q,2,u}=z]$  for  $z\in\mathbb{F}_q^*:=(\mathbb{Z}/q)^*$ . This is  $n/q^2$ , where n is the number of solutions to

$$E: (x^2 + u) \cdot (y^2 + u) = z: x, y \in \mathbb{F}_q.$$

E isomorphic to an Edwards curve over  $\mathbb{F}_{q^2}$ , and it is elliptic unless z=0 or  $z=u^2$ . The case z=0 is ruled out because  $z\in (\mathbb{Z}/q)^*$ , and we will deal with  $z=u^2$  later. For now, suppose that E is elliptic. E has no points at infinity over  $\mathbb{F}_q$ : they would have  $x^2+u=\infty$  and  $y^2+u=0$  or vice-versa, but the latter has no solutions over  $\mathbb{F}_q$ . Therefore, by the Hasse bound,

<span id="page-22-0"></span>
$$|n - (q+1)| \le 2\sqrt{q}. (2)$$

We want to show that

<span id="page-22-1"></span>
$$\left| n - \frac{q^2}{q - 1} \right| \leqslant 2\sqrt{q} \tag{3}$$

so that

$$\left| \Pr[\mathcal{D}_{q,2,u} = z] - \frac{1}{q-1} \right| = \frac{1}{q^2} \left| n - \frac{q^2}{q-1} \right|$$

$$\leq \frac{2\sqrt{q}}{q^2}.$$

$$= 2q^{-3/2}$$

{23}------------------------------------------------

The only way that n could meet bound (2) but not the claimed (3) is if

$$n - (q+1) \in \left[ -2\sqrt{q}, -2\sqrt{q} + \frac{1}{q-1} \right]$$

When can this interval contain integers? Empirically it does for  $q \in \{2,3\}$ , and does not for 3 < q < 19. For larger prime q, it also cannot contain integers: if it contained an integer m, then we would have

$$m^2 \in \left[4q - \frac{4\sqrt{q}}{q-1} + \frac{1}{(q-1)^2}, 4q\right]$$

With q > 18 we have:

$$q^{2} > 18q - 1$$
$$(q - 1)^{2} = q^{2} - 2q + 1$$
$$> 16q$$
$$q - 1 > 4\sqrt{q}$$

so the interval width

$$\frac{4\sqrt{q}}{q-1} - \frac{1}{(q-1)^2} < 1.$$

Therefore it contains no integers other than 4q, and we cannot have  $m^2 = 4q$  because q is prime.

For the case q=3, we must have u=1. Then  $\Pr[\mathcal{D}_{q,2,u}=z]$  is 1/3 for z=1 and 2/3 for z=2, and in both cases it differs from 1/2 by  $1/6<2/3^{3/2}$  as claimed.

Finally, what about the case  $z = u^2$ , so that E is not elliptic? In this case, we will show that there are exactly q or q + 2 solutions in  $\mathbb{Z}/q$ . The solutions have either x = 0, in which case also y = 0, or (x, y) nonzero and satisfying:

$$x^{2} \cdot y^{2} + u(x^{2} + y^{2}) = 0$$
$$x^{2}(y^{2} + u) = -uy^{2}$$
$$y^{2} + u = -u(y/x)^{2}$$

which is a non-degenerate ellipse in variables y and w := y/x. Every non-degenerate ellipse has exactly q+1 points (y,w) in the projective plane, and none of the points on this ellipse are at infinity, but only the points with (y,w) nonzero lift to unique solutions in  $(x,y) \in E$ . None of the points have w=0 because  $y^2+u\neq 0$ . If y=0 the equation reduces to  $w^2=-1$ , which has two solutions for  $q\equiv 1 \mod 4$  and none for  $q\equiv 3 \mod 4$ . So there are either q-1 or q+1 nonzero solutions (y,w) in these respective cases, for a total of q or q+2 solutions respectively. So in this case

$$|n - (q+1)| = 1 < 2\sqrt{q}$$

as well. This completes the proof of Lemma 2.

{24}------------------------------------------------

The following lemma extends Lemma 2 to  $\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u}$  for even  $k \geq 4$ . The idea is to begin with e=1, where we can bound the convolution of several copies of  $\mathcal{D}_{q^e,2,u}$  using Lemma 1. For larger e, we can then apply Hensel lifting. However, the Hensel argument fails when all the x's are equal to zero. That case introduces an additional term, which violates the bound when k=2 but becomes tiny when  $k \geq 4$ .

<span id="page-24-3"></span>**Lemma 3.** Let q be an odd prime,  $k \ge 4$  be an even integer, and e be a positive integer. Then

$$\|\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u} - \mathcal{U}_{q^e}\|_{\infty} \leqslant \frac{2^{k/2}}{q^{e+k/4}}$$

*Proof.* First, let's handle the case that e=1 by induction on k. Here Lemma 2 gives us a base case for k=2:

<span id="page-24-0"></span>
$$\|\mathcal{D}_{q,2,u} - \mathcal{U}_q\|_{\infty} \leqslant \frac{2^{2/2}}{q^{1+2/4}}$$

For larger even values of k, we apply Lemma 1 with n = q - 1 to get:

$$\|\mathcal{D}_{q,k,u} - \mathcal{U}_{q}\|_{\infty} \leq (q-1) \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_{q,k-2,u} - \mathcal{U}_{q}\|_{\infty} \cdot \|\mathcal{D}_{q,2,u} - \mathcal{U}_{q}\|_{\infty}$$

$$\leq (q-1) \cdot \frac{2^{k/2-1}}{q^{1+(k-2)/4}} \cdot \frac{2}{q^{1+1/2}}$$

$$= \frac{2^{k/2}}{q^{1+k/4}} \cdot \left(1 - \frac{1}{q}\right), \tag{4}$$

which is a slightly stronger version of the claim.

For e > 1, we will divide samples into equivalence classes according to a certain relation mod  $q^e$ . If two samples are equivalent mod  $q^e$  they all output the same value  $z \equiv \prod (x_i^2 + u) \mod q^e$ , and also they are equivalent mod  $q^{e'}$  for each e' < e. We call each class "zero" or "nonzero" according to whether it contains the solution  $(0, 0, \ldots, 0)$ .

Let a class  $C' \mod q^{e-1}$  output some  $z' \mod q^{e-1}$ . We define the *lifting* probability for C' to  $z \mod q^e$  as

$$\Pr[\text{lift to } z:\ C] := \Pr\left[S \text{ outputs } z \text{ mod } q^e: S \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} C\right]$$

We will show two proposition:

**Proposition 1.** Nonzero solutions mod  $q^{e-1}$  will lift to nonzero solutions mod q in the following way. Let C be a nonzero equivalence class of solutions to  $\prod (x_i^2 + u) \equiv z \mod q^{e-1}$ . Then for all  $z' \in (\mathbb{Z}/q^e)^*$  with  $z' \equiv z \mod q^{e-1}$ ,

<span id="page-24-1"></span>
$$\Pr[\text{lift to } z: \ C] = \frac{1}{q}.$$

<span id="page-24-2"></span>**Proposition 2.** If a sample S is chosen uniformly at random, then:

$$\Pr[S \in C_{0,e-1}] = q^{-\lceil (e-1)/2 \rceil k}.$$

{25}------------------------------------------------

Furthermore,

$$\left| \Pr[\text{lift to } z: \ C_{0,e-1}] - \frac{1}{q} \right| \leqslant \alpha_e$$

where  $\alpha_e \leq 1$  for even e, and  $\alpha_e \leq 1/q^{k/2} \leq 1/q^2$  for odd e.

Once we have proven these two propositions, we can prove the main theorem by strong induction. Let "zero( $q^e$ )" denote the event that a sample lies in  $C_{0,e}$ . Abbreviate

$$\delta_{q^e,k} := q^e \cdot \|\Pr\left[\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u}\right] - U_{q^e}\|$$

Applying the propositions, we have

$$\begin{split} \delta_{q^e,k} &\leqslant \delta_{q^{e-1},k} + q^e \cdot \alpha_e \cdot \Pr[\operatorname{zero}(q^{e-1})] \\ &\leqslant \delta_{q^{e-1},k} + q^e \cdot \begin{cases} q^{-e/2 \cdot k} & \text{if } e \text{ is even} \\ 1/q \cdot q^{-(e-1)/2 \cdot k} & \text{if } e \text{ is odd} \end{cases} \end{split}$$

Letting e be odd and applying this twice, we thus have

$$\begin{split} \delta_{q^e,k} &\leqslant \delta_{q^{e-2},k} + q^e \cdot q^{-1 - (e-1)/2 \cdot k} + q^{e-1} \cdot q^{-(e-1)/2 \cdot k} \\ &= \delta_{q^{e-2},k} + 2q^{e-1 - (e-1)/2 \cdot k} \\ &= \delta_{q^{e-2},k} + 2q^{-(e-1)/2 \cdot (k-2)} \end{split}$$

Summing this up from e = 3 to  $\infty$ , we have that for all e,

<span id="page-25-0"></span>
$$\delta_{q^e,k} \leq \delta_{q,k} + 2 \sum_{e=3 \text{ odd}}^{\infty} q^{-(e-1)/2 \cdot (k-2)}$$

$$= \delta_{q,k} + \frac{2}{q^{k-2} - 1}$$
(5)

For  $q \ge 3$  and  $k \ge 4$ , plugging in (4) and

$$\frac{2}{q^{k-2}-1} < \frac{4}{q^{k-2}} < \frac{2^{k/2}}{q^{1+k/4}}$$

gives  $\delta_{q,k} \leqslant \frac{2^{k/2}}{q^{k/4}}$  as claimed. But it remains to prove Propositions 1 and 2.

*Proof of Proposition 1* Next we will define the equivalence classes and prove Proposition 1. This step is essentially a Hensel lift. Consider two tuples of the form

$$X := (x_1, x_2, \dots, x_k)$$
 and  $X' := (x'_1, x'_2, \dots, x'_k),$ 

For each i, let  $f_i$  be the maximum integer such that  $f_i \leq \lceil e/2 \rceil$  and  $q^{f_i}|x_i$ . Define  $x_i =: q^{f_i} \cdot y_i$  and likewise define  $f'_i$  and  $y'_i$ . Then for all  $d_i$ ,

$$x_i^2 + u \equiv (q^{f_i}(y_i + d_i q^{e-2f_i}))^2 + u \mod q^e$$

{26}------------------------------------------------

and, on the contrary, if  $f_i < [e/2]$  then values of the form

$$(q^{f_i}(y_i + d_i q^{e-2f_i-1}))^2 + u$$

span all values equivalent to  $x_i^2 + u \mod q^{e-1}$ . Thus, we will call these tuples equivalent if for each i,  $f_i = f_i'$  and  $y_i' \equiv y_i \mod q^{e-2f_i}$ . We call an equivalence class C nonzero if it doesn't contain  $(0, 0, \ldots, 0)$ , which is equivalent to having at least one  $f_i < \lceil e/2 \rceil$ .

Suppose that X is in a nonzero class  $C \mod q^{e-1}$ , such that  $\prod (x_i^2 + u) \equiv z \mod q^{e-1}$ . Then for each  $z' \equiv z \mod q^{e-1}$ , the class C samples  $z' \mod q^e$  with probability 1/q. To see this, let  $f_j < (e-1)/2$  and write

$$\prod_{i} (x_i^2 + u) = ((q^{f_j}(y_j + d_j q^{e-2f_j}))^2 + u) \cdot \prod_{i \neq j} (x_i^2 + u)$$

The latter term is nonzero mod q and thus invertible, and the former term samples each value equivalent to  $z/\prod_{i\neq j}(x_i^2+u) \mod q^{e-1}$  each with probability 1/q. This completes the proof of the Proposition 1.

Proof of Proposition 2 As defined, a class is zero mod  $q^{e-1}$  if and only if each  $f_i = \lceil (e-1)/2 \rceil$ , which is to say if each  $x_i$  is divisible by  $q^{\lceil (e-1)/2 \rceil}$ . This happens with probability  $q^{k\lceil (e-1)/2 \rceil}$ .

It remains to show that for odd e and  $z = u^k + cq^{e-1}$ , the probability that the zero class mod  $q^{e-1}$  samples  $z \mod q^e$  is between  $1/q - 1/q^{k/2}$  and  $1/q + 1/q^{k/2}$ . The resulting equation is

$$\prod \left( (q^{\frac{e-1}{2}} d_i)^2 + u \right) \equiv u^k + cq^{e-1} \mod q^e$$

which is equivalent to

$$u^{k-1} \sum_{i=1}^{k} d_i^2 \equiv c \mod q.$$

The leading  $u^{k-1}$  is invertible and may be discarded. The remaining distribution may be bounded by [Elk11], which considers a convolution  $S_q^{*k}$  of k copies of the distribution  $S_q := \{d_i^2 \mod q : d_i \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}/q\}$ . The Fourier coefficients

$$\widehat{S}(j) := \frac{1}{q} \sum_{x=0}^{q-1} e^{2\pi j x^2/q}$$

of S are a Gauss sum, and so are equal to 1 for j=0 and to  $1/\sqrt{\pm q}$  for  $j\neq 0$ . There are q-1 coefficients with  $j\neq 0$ . The Fourier transform of the uniform distribution  $U_q$  has coefficients  $\hat{U}_q(0)=1$  and 0 elsewhere, so

$$\left\|\widehat{S_q^{*k}} - \widehat{U}_q\right\|_2^2 = \frac{q-1}{q^k}.$$

{27}------------------------------------------------

Therefore

$$\left| \Pr[S_q^{*k} = c] - \frac{1}{q} \right| \le \left\| S_q^{*k} - U \right\|_2$$

$$= \sqrt{\frac{1}{q} \left\| \widehat{S_q^{*k}} - \widehat{U} \right\|_2^2}$$

$$= \sqrt{\frac{q-1}{q^{k+1}}} < \frac{1}{q^{k/2}}$$

This completes the proof of Proposition 2 and Lemma 3.

We are now ready to prove the theorem.

**Theorem 1 (Uniformity of**  $\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u}$ ). Let M be a positive odd integer, let u be valid mod M, and let  $k \ge 4$ . Let  $\mathcal{U}_M$  be the uniform distribution on  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$ . Let

<span id="page-27-0"></span>
$$\epsilon_{M,k} := \sum_{\text{prime } q \mid M} \left( \frac{2}{\sqrt{q}} \right)^{\lfloor k/2 \rfloor}.$$

Then

$$\|\mathcal{D}_{M,k,u} - \mathcal{U}_M\|_1 < \epsilon_{M,k} \quad and \quad \delta H_{\infty} < \frac{\epsilon_{M,k}}{\ln 2}.$$

*Proof.* We note that the claimed bounds are at most additive for powers  $q^e||M$ , so it suffices to prove them for each  $q^e||M$ . It also suffices to consider only even k, because convolving with another copy of  $\mathcal{D}_{M,1,u}$  cannot increase either quantity, nor does going from even k to k+1 change  $\epsilon_{M,k}$ . The  $L_1$  distance follows immediately from Lemma 3, because

$$\|\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u} - U_{q^e}\|_1 < q^e \|\mathcal{D}_{q^e,k,u} - U_{q^e}\|_{\infty} \leqslant \frac{2^{k/2}}{q^{k/4}}.$$

For the min-entropy loss, let  $n := \phi(q^e)$ , and note that for each  $z \in (\mathbb{Z}/q^e)^*$ ,

$$\delta H_{\infty} \leq \ln z n$$

$$= \log_2 (1 + n(z - 1/n))$$

$$\leq \frac{1}{\ln 2} \cdot n(z - 1/n)$$

$$\leq \frac{1}{\ln 2} \cdot n \left\| \mathcal{D}_{q^e, k, u} - \mathcal{U}_q^e \right\|_{\infty}$$

This completes the theorem.

# <span id="page-27-1"></span>B Minimizing u

We say that u is "valid" mod M if  $\left(\frac{-u}{p}\right) = -1$  for all primes p|M. If M's factorization is known, then it is easy to find a valid  $u_p$  modulo each p|M (e.g.

{28}------------------------------------------------

by checking the Jacobi symbol  $\left(\frac{-u_p}{p}\right)$  until a valid  $u_p$  is found), and to combine them using the Chinese Remainder Theorem. But what is the minimum valid u? Using a smaller u could allow the same u to be used for several values of M, or could reduce memory usage and compute time, but mostly it is a mathematically interesting question. For simplicity, we assume here that M is square-free.

If there are n primes dividing M, then a random element of  $(\mathbb{Z}/M)^*$  is valid with probability  $2^{-n}$ , so we expect the minimum valid u to be around  $u_{\text{minexp}} := 2^n \cdot M/\phi(M)$ . A brute-force strategy would require about  $u_{\text{minexp}}$  work, which is infeasible past the first 50 primes or so. But this work can be reduced somewhat, particularly if we settle for a small but not minimal u.

### B.1 Sparse solutions to linear equations

The most effective method we found was to search for valid u of the form  $u = q_1 \cdot q_2 \cdots q_m$  where the  $q_i$ 's are in some set Q. The validity criterion is that:

for each prime 
$$p|M$$
,  $\left(\frac{-u}{p}\right) = \left(\frac{-1}{p}\right) \cdot \left(\frac{q_1}{p}\right) \cdots \left(\frac{q_m}{p}\right)$  (6)

If each  $q_i$  is coprime to M, then the Jacobi symbols are all either -1 or 1; mapping these to 1 and 0 respectively translates the validity criterion to a system of affine equations over  $\mathbb{F}_2$ . This allows us to solve for u with xor-list or sparse solution techniques, such as:

- A birthday attack or stronger collision technique [VOW99] for m=2 and Q a large set (e.g.  $|Q|\approx 2^{32}$ ).
- Wagner's xor-list algorithm [Wag02] for m small and Q a large set.
- Information set decoding for large m and a relatively small set Q (e.g. the first 1000 primes not dividing M).

Using a birthday attack, we discovered that the 59-bit value

#### u = 0x4b0555d761f3f52

is valid mod the 383-bit product of the first 59 odd primes. We also used Wagner's algorithm to search for u a product of four 32-bit odd numbers, requiring it to be valid mod at least the first 72 odd primes. We ran the algorithm for a day on a 64-core Amazon EC2 Graviton2 instance, producing some 5 million results. Notably,

#### u = 0xe3b0f73b0050ab294417001ad1e63d

is valid mod the 729-bit product of the first 99 odd primes. Our search was tuned to find u relatively close to  $u_{\rm minexp}$ ; tuning it differently would have been faster or found valid u mod more primes, but the resulting u would be significantly larger.

It isn't necessary to choose M before u. One could start with a small u which is valid mod the first several primes, and then choose further primes p|M

{29}------------------------------------------------

so that u is valid. This sacrifices some performance, because discarding small primes reduces  $M/\phi(M)$ . Our search using Wagner's algorithm found that

$$u = 0$$
x23e9ee9bd621b0b248e8b59a4c80bb55

performs well across a range of bit sizes, losing about 0.5% of performance compared to an unconstrained (M, u) at 1024 bits and 3% at 2048 bits.

The quality of results from Wagner's algorithm should fall off exponentially with the number of primes dividing M, because at each step the algorithm multiplies two intermediate values to produce another intermediate that solves b more equations, for some block size b. So while it performs well for the first 100 primes, ISD appears to perform better for the first 400 primes.

### B.2 Multiple u

Instead of using linear equations to search for a single u, we could choose a few small u such that at least one of them is valid for every p|M. For example, for each of the first 133 odd primes, at least one of  $u \in U := \{1, 2, 5, 19\}$  is valid. We could factor M into  $\prod_{u \in U} M_u$  such that u is valid mod the corresponding  $M_u$ . Then we could sample values  $x_u \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/M_u)^*$  and combine them as in Section 2.2.

### **B.3** Quadratic minimization

Two other techniques are based on finding small values of quadratic functions over the integers. One is to factor M as  $M_1 \cdot M_3$  where  $M_1$  contains the 1-mod-4 factors and  $M_3$  contains the 3-mod-4 factors of M. Valid u are of the form  $u \equiv x^2 \mod M_3$  for some x coprime to  $M_3$ . We may plug in  $x = \lfloor \sqrt{kM_3} \rfloor + \ell$  for small positive integers  $k, \ell$  as a more efficient brute force technique. This technique gives many candidate values of u which are around  $\sqrt{M_3} \approx \sqrt[4]{M}$ , but it still takes exponential time as M increases.

The second approach is to choose small, coprime, square-free positive integers  $(\alpha, \beta)$ , and then partition M as  $M_0 \cdot M_1$ , such that

$$u = \alpha M_0 - \beta M_1$$

is valid. This will be true if:

- 1. For all primes p|M, if  $p|\alpha$  then  $p|M_0$  and likewise if  $p|\beta$  then  $p|M_1$ .
- 2. For all other primes  $p|M_0$ ,  $\left(\frac{\beta}{p}\right) \cdot \prod_{q|M_1} \left(\frac{q}{p}\right) = -1$  and vice versa.

These equations are actually affine: switching a prime p from  $M_0$  to  $M_1$  or back has the same effect on all the equations regardless of where the other primes are assigned. They can therefore be solved efficiently for a given  $(\alpha, \beta)$  with probability about  $(1 - \frac{1}{2}) \cdot (1 - \frac{1}{4}) \cdots \approx 0.29$ .

To further reduce u, we make two improvements. First, we extend the equation to  $u = \alpha M_0 x^2 - \beta M_1 y^2$  where x is coprime to  $\beta M_1 y^2$  and vice versa. By

{30}------------------------------------------------

setting <sup>x</sup>{<sup>y</sup> as convergents to <sup>a</sup> βM1{pαM0q, we can find many valid values of u « ? α ¨ β ¨ M<sup>0</sup> ¨ M1. Furthermore, we don't need to set M " M<sup>0</sup> ¨ M<sup>1</sup> exactly: it suffices to instead choose M2|M upfront and set M " M<sup>0</sup> ¨ M<sup>1</sup> ¨ M2. This method produces many u which are valid mod M<sup>0</sup> ¨ M1, and we can continue until by chance we find one which is also valid mod M2. Overall, this approach finds <sup>u</sup> which are slightly smaller than ? M, as does ISD, but ISD seems to work better in practice.