

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Efficiency Improvement of Deniable FHE: Tighter Deniability Analysis and TFHE-based Construction

Towa Toyooka<sup>1</sup> , Yohei Watanabe1*,*<sup>2</sup> , and Mitsugu Iwamoto<sup>1</sup>

<sup>1</sup> The University of Electro-Communications, Chofu, Japan {t.toyooka, watanabe, mitsugu}@uec.ac.jp <sup>2</sup> National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Tokyo, Japan

Abstract. Fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) is a cryptographic scheme that can take ciphertexts as inputs and compute a new ciphertext of a function of the underlying messages without decryption. FHE has been attracting attention along with the growing interest in privacy-preserving technologies. In terms of privacy-preserving technology, deniable encryption is also important. Deniable encryption enables a user, who may be forced to reveal the messages corresponding to the user's public ciphertexts, to lie about which messages the user encrypted. Agrawal et al. (CRYPTO 2021) introduced deniable FHE (DFHE) that combines FHE with deniable encryption, and proposed a transformation from an FHE scheme that satisfies specific special requirements, called special FHE, to a DFHE scheme. They also showed a construction of a special FHE scheme based on the BGV (Brakerski–Gentry–Vaikuntanathan) scheme. However, in the construction by Agrawal et al., one must store all the extensive randomness used for encryption in order to lie, and a bootstrapping operation, which takes a long time to execute, is a bottleneck in execution speed. In this paper, we show that by providing a tighter upper bound on deniability, we can reduce the size of the stored randomness and the required number of bootstrapping in the construction by Agrawal et al. In addition, we show that TFHE (Chillotti et al., J. Cryptol., 2020; Joye, CT-RSA 2024), which is known as a FHE scheme with fast bootstrapping, satisfies the requirements of special FHE, and thus can realize a faster DFHE scheme than the BGV-based construction.

Keywords: Deniable fully homomorphic encryption · Deniability · TFHE.

## 1 Introduction

## 1.1 Background

In recent years, there has been a growing interest in privacy-preserving data utilization. Consequently, research on techniques for secure cross-organizational data collaboration and analysis of sensitive information has become an active field. In this context, secure computation, a class of cryptographic techniques that enables computation on private inputs without revealing them, is attracting significant attention. Multiparty computation [\[26](#page-11-0)[,17](#page-11-1)] and homomorphic encryption [[23](#page-11-2)] are primary examples of techniques used to realize secure computation.

Homomorphic encryption is a cryptographic scheme that enables computation on messages by performing certain operations on ciphertexts without decryption. In particular, a scheme that can perform both additions and multiplications for an arbitrary number of times is called fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) [[15](#page-10-0)]. Since the first FHE construction was proposed by Gentry [[15](#page-10-0),[14\]](#page-10-1), various FHE schemes have been proposed, such as BGV [[6\]](#page-10-2), B/FV [[5,](#page-10-3)[13](#page-10-4)], GSW [[16\]](#page-10-5), DM (or FHEW) [[12\]](#page-10-6), CGGI (or TFHE) [\[11](#page-10-7)], and CKKS [[10](#page-10-8)[,9](#page-10-9)].

In the context of privacy-preserving technologies, one relevant cryptographic primitive is deniable encryption, proposed by Canetti et al. [[8\]](#page-10-10). Deniable encryption is a cryptographic scheme that enables a user, who may be coerced to reveal the messages corresponding to the user's public ciphertexts, to lie about which messages the user encrypted. This property is useful in scenarios such as electronic voting and cloud computing, where computations are performed on encrypted data provided by other parties.

Agrawal et al. [[2\]](#page-10-11) proposed deniable FHE (DFHE), a cryptographic scheme that satisfies the properties of both FHE and deniable encryption, and provided its security model and a construction. They proposed a concrete construction of DFHE by first showing a generic method to convert any FHE scheme that satisfies 

{1}------------------------------------------------

certain properties (which they term a special FHE) into a DFHE scheme. They then demonstrated how to construct such a special FHE based on the BGV scheme [6].

However, the DFHE construction proposed by Agrawal et al. [2] suffers from two drawbacks in terms of efficiency. The first is that in order to lie about a one-bit message, one must store all  $\mathcal{O}\left(\lambda \cdot \mathsf{poly}(\lambda)^2 \cdot \delta(\lambda)^2 \cdot (\ell_c' + \ell)\right)$  bits of the randomness used for encryption, where  $\lambda$  is the security parameter,  $\mathsf{poly}(\lambda)$  is a positive polynomial,  $\delta(\lambda)$  is a parameter for deniability,  $\ell_c'$  is the bit length of elements in ciphertext space, and  $\ell$  is a parameter for encryption. The second is the heavy use of bootstrapping operations, which plays a crucial role in existing FHE constructions but is computationally expensive. Indeed, Agrawal et al.'s construction [2] requires  $\mathcal{O}\left(\lambda \cdot \mathsf{poly}(\lambda)^2 \cdot \delta(\lambda)^2\right)$  bootstrapping operations to encrypt a one-bit message, where  $\lambda$  is the security parameter,  $\mathsf{poly}(\lambda)$  is a positive polynomial, and  $\delta(\lambda)$  is a parameter for deniability. Consequently, the overall performance of the DFHE scheme is significantly impacted by the speed of a single bootstrapping operation.

#### 1.2 Our Contributions

In this paper, we propose methods to mitigate two efficiency drawbacks in Agrawal et al.'s DFHE scheme [2]: the large randomness size and the performance overhead caused by the heavy use of bootstrapping.

First, in Section 4, we provide a tighter upper bound on deniability of Agrawal et al.'s DFHE scheme [2]. Since the bit length of the randomness and the number of bootstrapping operations in the encryption algorithm depend on the deniability, these values can be reduced by achieving a tighter upper bound on deniability. By providing the tighter bound, both the bit length of the randomness and the number of bootstrapping operations can be reduced by 84%.

Second, in Section 5, we show that TFHE [11,20], which is known as a FHE scheme with fast bootstrapping, satisfies the requirements of special FHE, and thus can realize a faster DFHE scheme than the BGV-based construction.

## 2 Preliminaries

#### 2.1 Notations

Throughout the paper, we use  $\lambda \in \mathbb{N}$  to denote the security parameter. We write  $y \leftarrow A(x)$  to denote that the probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) algorithm A takes x as input and outputs y. To explicitly show that A uses randomness r, we write  $y \leftarrow A(x;r)$ . For a distribution D, we denote by  $d \leftarrow D$  the operation of sampling d according to d. For a finite set d0, we denote by d1 the operation of sampling d2 uniformly at random from d2. For two integers d3 with d4 we write d4 we write d5 the operation of sampling d6 uniformly at random from d6. For a real number d6 we denote by d7 the closest integer to d7. For integers d8 and d9 and d9 we use d9 denote that d9 divides d9. We use bold lowercase letters (e.g., d9) to denote vectors. For two vectors d6 and d9 of the same dimension, we denote by d6 the inner product of d6 and d7. For a bit string d8 and d9 of the same dimension, we denote by d9 the inner product of d9 and d9. For a bit string d9 and d9 neglective polynomial function of d9 and a negligible function of d9, respectively.

#### 2.2 Useful Lemmas

<span id="page-1-0"></span>We will use the following lemmas throughout this paper.

**Lemma 1.** For all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  and all  $k \in [0, n]$ , we have

$$\binom{n+1}{k} = \binom{n}{k-1} + \binom{n}{k} \quad and \quad \binom{n}{k+1} = \frac{n-k}{k+1} \binom{n}{k}.$$

<span id="page-1-2"></span><span id="page-1-1"></span>**Lemma 2** ([24]). For all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$ , we have

$$\sqrt{2\pi n} \left(\frac{n}{e}\right)^n e^{\frac{1}{12n+1}} < n! < \sqrt{2\pi n} \left(\frac{n}{e}\right)^n e^{\frac{1}{12n}}.$$

{2}------------------------------------------------

Lemma 3 ([[4\]](#page-10-12)). *For all n ∈* N*, we have*

$$\left(1 + \frac{1}{n}\right)^n < e.$$

## 2.3 Fully Homomorphic Encryption

We recall the definition of FHE.

Definition 1 (Fully Homomorphic Encryption). *A public-key fully homomorphic encryption scheme* FHE *for a message space M consists of PPT algorithms* (Gen*,* Enc*,* Eval*,* Dec) *with the following syntax:*

- Gen(1*<sup>λ</sup>* ) *→* (pk*,*sk)*: On input the unary representation of the security parameter λ, the key-generation algorithm* Gen *outputs a public key* pk *and secret key* sk*.*
- Enc(pk*, m*) *→* ct*: On input a public key* pk *and a message m, the encryption algorithm* Enc *outputs a ciphertext* ct*.*
- Eval(pk*, C,* ct1*, . . . ,* ct*k*) *→* ct*: On input a public key* pk*, a circuit C* : *M<sup>k</sup> → M, and ciphertexts* ct1*, . . . ,* ct*k, the evaluation algorithm* Eval *outputs a ciphertext* ct*.*
- Dec(sk*,* ct) *→ m: On input a secret key* sk *and a ciphertext* ct*, the decryption algorithm* Dec *outputs a message m ∈ M.*

We omit the definitions of correctness, compactness, and IND-CPA security of FHE scheme here. For the formal definitions of them, see Definitions [6](#page-11-5), [7](#page-11-6) and [8](#page-11-7) in Appendix [A.1.](#page-11-8)

In FHE, performing operations on ciphertexts increases the amount of noise they contain. This noise growth limits the number of homomorphic operations that can be performed on a ciphertext. A technique to reduce this noise without decrypting the ciphertext was introduced by Gentry [[15](#page-10-0)[,14](#page-10-1)] and is known as bootstrapping. All currently known FHE schemes are constructed based on this bootstrapping technique. The definition of bootstrapping is as follows.

Definition 2 (Bootstrapping Procedure). *Let* FHE = (Gen*,* Enc*,* Eval*,* Dec) *be a public-key FHE scheme for a message space M with a ciphertext space R<sup>ℓ</sup><sup>c</sup> . The bootstrapping procedure, denoted by* boot: *R<sup>ℓ</sup><sup>c</sup> → R<sup>ℓ</sup><sup>c</sup> , is defined as*

$$\mathsf{boot}(x) = \mathsf{Eval}(\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{Dec}_x, \mathsf{ct}_{\mathsf{sk}}),$$

*where* (pk*,*sk) *←* Gen(1*<sup>λ</sup>* )*,* ctsk *←* Enc(pk*,*sk)*, and* Dec*x*(sk) = Dec(sk*, x*)*.*

### 2.4 Deniable Fully Homomorphic Encryption

We recall the definition of DFHE.

Definition 3 (Deniable FHE [\[2](#page-10-11)]). *A public-key deniable fully homomorphic encryption scheme* DFHE *for a message space M consists of PPT algorithms* (Gen*,* Enc*,* Eval*,* Dec*,* Fake) *with the following syntax:*

- Gen(1*<sup>λ</sup>* ) *→* (dpk*,* dsk)*: On input the unary representation of the security parameter λ, the key-generation algorithm* Gen *outputs a public key* dpk *and secret key* dsk*.*
- Enc(dpk*, m*; *r*) *→* dct*: On input a public key* dpk *and a message m, the encryption algorithm* Enc *uses an ℓ-bit randomness r and outputs a ciphertext* dct*.*
- Eval(dpk*, C,* dct1*, . . . ,* dct*k*) *→* dct*: On input a public key* dpk*, a circuit C* : *M<sup>k</sup> → M, and ciphertexts* dct1*, . . . ,* dct*k, the evaluation algorithm* Eval *outputs a ciphertext* dct*.*
- Dec(dsk*,* dct) *→ m: On input a secret key* dsk *and a ciphertext* dct*, the decryption algorithm* Dec *outputs a message m ∈ M.*
- Fake(dpk*, m, r, m<sup>∗</sup>* ) *→ r ∗ : On input a public key* dpk*, an original message m, an original ℓ-bit randomness r, and a fake message m<sup>∗</sup> ∈ M, the fake algorithm* Fake *outputs a fake ℓ-bit randomness r ∗ .*

We say that a DFHE scheme DFHE = (Gen*,* Enc*,* Eval*,* Dec*,* Fake) is correct, compact, and IND-CPA secure if the scheme (Gen*,* Enc*,* Eval*,* Dec) satisfies correctness, compactness, and IND-CPA security of FHE, as in Definitions [6,](#page-11-5) [7](#page-11-6) and [8,](#page-11-7) respectively. The notions of deniability and deniability compactness of DFHE were defined by Agrawal et al. [\[2](#page-10-11)]. Deniability is defined as follows.

{3}------------------------------------------------

**Definition 4 (Deniability [2]).** A DFHE scheme DFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec, Fake) is  $1/\delta(\lambda)$ -deniable if for all PPT adversaries A, we have

$$\left|\Pr\!\left[\mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^0=1\right]-\Pr\!\left[\mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^1=1\right]\right|\leq \frac{1}{\delta(\lambda)},$$

 $\textit{where} \ \mathsf{DenGame}^b_{\mathcal{A}} \ \textit{is a game between a challenger and a PPT adversary} \ \mathcal{A} \ \textit{with a challenge bit b defined as}$ follows:

- The challenger samples  $(dpk, dsk) \leftarrow Gen(1^{\lambda})$ , and sends dpk to A.
- The adversary A chooses  $m, m^* \in \mathcal{M}$ , and sends  $(m, m^*)$  to the challenger.
- The challenger samples  $r \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^{\ell}$  and computes  $r^* \leftarrow \mathsf{Fake}(\mathsf{dpk}, m, r, m^*); if <math>b = 0$  sends  $(m^*, r, m^*)$  $\operatorname{Enc}(\operatorname{dpk}, m^*; r))$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ , else if b = 1,  $\operatorname{sends}(m^*, r^*, \operatorname{Enc}(\operatorname{dpk}, m; r))$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- The adversary A outputs a bit b' which we define as the output of the game.

We omit the definition of deniability compactness here. For the formal definition of deniability compactness, see Definition 12 in Appendix A.2.

#### Agrawal et al.'s DFHE Scheme 3

The DFHE constructions proposed by Agrawal et al. [2] rely on an FHE scheme, called special FHE, that satisfies some special properties. They proposed two variants of special FHE schemes in the full version [1]: a strong version and a weak version. In this paper, we employ the latter, defined as follows.

<span id="page-3-3"></span>**Definition 5 (Special FHE (Weak Version) [1]).** An FHE scheme FHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) for the message space  $\mathcal{M} = \{0,1\}$  with ciphertext space  $\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$  is a special FHE scheme if FHE satisfies the following  $additional\ properties:$ 

- 1. The evaluation algorithm Eval and the decryption algorithm Dec are deterministic.
- 2. The distribution  $\mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}, m; U^{\ell})$  is computationally indistinguishable from  $\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$ , where  $U^{\ell}$  is a uniform  $distribution \ over \ \{0,1\}^{\ell}, \ (\mathsf{pk},\mathsf{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda}), \ and \ m \in \mathcal{M}. \ Moreover, \ the \ distribution \ \mathsf{boot}(\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}) \ is$ computationally indistinguishable from  $\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$ .
- 3. The decryption algorithm Dec always outputs a message from the message space  $\mathcal{M}$ .
- 4. On input a secret key sk and random element in the ciphertext space  $\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$ , the decryption algorithm Dec outputs 0 with non-negligible probability.
- 5. The scheme FHE is circular secure.

We recall Agrawal et al.'s DFHE scheme [1, Section 7.1] below.

<span id="page-3-2"></span>Construction 1 (DFHE [1]) Let a scheme FHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) be a special FHE scheme for the message space  $\mathcal{M} = \{0,1\}$  with ciphertext space  $\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$ . We let  $n = 100\delta(\lambda)^2$  and  $k' = \lambda(\mathsf{poly}(\lambda))^2$ . Let  $\oplus_2 : (\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c})^n \to \mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$  be a homomorphic evaluation of addition modulo 2.<sup>2</sup> A compact public-key  $1/\delta(\lambda)$ -deniable FHE scheme for the message space  $\mathcal{M} = \{0,1\}$ , DFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec, Fake), is described below.

- DFHE.Gen $(1^{\lambda}) \rightarrow (dpk, dsk)$ : On input the unary representation of the security parameter  $\lambda$ , do the following:
  - 1.  $(\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{FHE}.\mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda})$ .
  - 2.  $\mathsf{ct}_{\mathsf{sk}} \leftarrow \mathsf{FHE}.\mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk},\mathsf{sk})$ .
  - 3.  $Output dpk = (pk, ct_{sk}) \ and \ dsk = sk$ .
- DFHE.Enc(dpk, m)  $\rightarrow$  dct: On input a public key dpk and a message m, do the following:
  - 1.  $Parse \ dpk := (pk, ct_{sk})$ .
  - 2.  $x_1, \ldots, x_n \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}$  s.t.  $\sum_{i=1}^n x_i = m \pmod{2}$ . 3. For all  $i \in [n]$ , if  $x_i = 0$ , select  $R_i$  as follows:

<span id="page-3-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> For the formal definition of circular security [7], see Definition 9 in Appendix A.1.

<span id="page-3-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> For the formal definition of  $\oplus_2$ , see Definition 11 in Appendix A.1.

{4}------------------------------------------------

- (a) For all  $j \in [k']$ ,  $A_{i,j} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$  and set  $T_{i,j} = \mathsf{boot}(A_{i,j})$ .
- (b) Set  $R_i = \mathsf{FHE}.\mathsf{Eval}(\mathsf{pk},\mathsf{AND},T_{i,1},\ldots,T_{i,k'}).$
- 4. For all  $i \in [n]$ , if  $x_i = 1$ , select  $R_i$  as follows:
  - (a) For all  $j \in [k']$ ,  $r_{i,j} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^{\ell}$ ,  $A_{i,j} \leftarrow \mathsf{FHE}.\mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk},1;r_{i,j})$ , and set  $T_{i,j} = \mathsf{boot}(A_{i,j})$ .
  - (b) Set  $R_i = \mathsf{FHE}.\mathsf{Eval}(\mathsf{pk},\mathsf{AND},T_{i,1},\ldots,T_{i,k'}).$
- 5.  $Output \ \mathsf{dct} = \bigoplus_2 (\mathsf{boot}(R_1), \ldots, \mathsf{boot}(R_n)).$
- DFHE.Eval(dpk, C, dct<sub>1</sub>,..., dct<sub>k</sub>)  $\rightarrow$  dct: On input a public key dpk, a circuit  $C: \mathcal{M}^k \rightarrow \mathcal{M}$ , and ciphertexts dct<sub>1</sub>,..., dct<sub>k</sub>, do the following:
  - 1. For all  $i \in [k]$ , interpret  $dct_i$  as a FHE ciphertext  $ct_i$ .
  - 2.  $Output \ dct = FHE.Eval(pk, C, ct_1, ..., ct_k)$ .
- DFHE.Dec(dsk, dct)  $\rightarrow m$ : On input a secret key dsk and a ciphertext dct, do the following:
  - 1. Interpret dsk and dct as FHE secret key sk and FHE ciphertext ct.
  - 2. Output FHE.Dec(sk, ct).
- DFHE.Fake(dpk, m, rand,  $m^*$ )  $\rightarrow$  rand\*: On input a public key dpk, an original message m, an original  $\ell$ -bit randomness rand, and a fake message  $m^* \in \mathcal{M}$ , do the following:
  - 1. If  $m = m^*$ , output rand\* = rand.
  - 2. Parse dpk := (pk, ct<sub>sk</sub>) and rand =  $(x_1, ..., x_n, r_1, ..., r_n)$ , where  $x_1, ..., x_n \in \{0, 1\}$ , and for all  $i \in [n]$ , if  $x_i = 1$ , then  $r_i = (r_{i,1}, ..., r_{i,k'})$ ; else if  $x_i = 0$ , then  $r_i = (A_{i,1}, ..., A_{i,k'})$ .
  - 3.  $i^* \leftarrow [n]$  s.t.  $x_{i^*} = 1$ . If there is no such  $i^*$ , output "cheating impossible"; else:
    - (a) For all  $j \in [k']$ ,  $A_{i^*,j} \leftarrow \mathsf{FHE}.\mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk},1;r_{i^*,j})$ .
    - (b) Set  $x_{i^*}^* = 0$  and  $\mathbf{r}_{i^*}^* = (A_{i^*,1}, \dots, A_{i^*,k'}).$
    - (c) For all  $i \in [n] \setminus \{i^*\}$ , set  $x_i^* = x_i$  and  $r_i^* = r_i$ .
  - 4. Output rand\* =  $(x_1^*, \dots, x_n^*, r_1^*, \dots, r_n^*)$ .

Regarding the deniability of the DFHE scheme (Construction 1), Proposition 1 holds as follows.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Proposition 1** ([1]). For all PPT adversaries A, we have

$$\left| \Pr \left[ \mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{0} = 1 \right] - \Pr \left[ \mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{1} = 1 \right] \right| \leq \frac{1}{2^{n}} \left\{ \sum_{k \geq n/2} \binom{n}{k} \left( 1 - \frac{n-k}{k+1} \right) + \sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k} \left( \frac{n-k}{k+1} - 1 \right) \right\}$$

$$\leq \frac{10}{\sqrt{n}}.$$

$$(2)$$

If we let  $n = 100\delta(\lambda)^2$ , DFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec, Fake) is  $1/\delta(\lambda)$ -deniable.

We here emphasize that the parameter n drastically affects the efficiency of the above DFHE scheme, since the randomness size and the number of bootstrapping operations depend on n. Let us look into it below.

Let  $\mathbf{x} = (x_1, \dots, x_n)$ . We denote by  $\ell'_c$  the bit length of elements in the ciphertext space  $\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$  (that is,  $\ell'_c = \lceil \ell_c \log_2(|\mathcal{R}|) \rceil$ ). The bit length of rand is  $n + k'\ell'_c(n - M_1(\mathbf{x})) + k'\ell M_1(\mathbf{x})$ . Since we can set  $M_1(\mathbf{x}) = cn$  for  $0 \le c \le 1$ , the bit length of rand is as follows:

<span id="page-4-3"></span><span id="page-4-2"></span><span id="page-4-1"></span>
$$\underbrace{n}_{x} + \underbrace{k'\ell'_{c}(n - M_{1}(x))}_{(A_{i,j}) \text{ in Step 3}} + \underbrace{k'\ell M_{1}(x)}_{(r_{i,j}) \text{ in Step 4}} = (1 + (1 - c)k'\ell'_{c} + ck'\ell)n. \tag{3}$$

Since both addition modulo 2 and an AND gate can be evaluated homomorphically with a single bootstrapping operation, the total number of bootstrapping operations in the encryption algorithm is as follows:

<span id="page-4-4"></span>
$$\underbrace{(k'+(k'-1))(n-M_1(\mathbf{x}))}_{\text{Step 3}} + \underbrace{(k'+(k'-1))M_1(\mathbf{x})}_{\text{Step 4}} + \underbrace{n+(n-1)}_{\text{Step 5}} = (2k'+1)n-1. \tag{4}$$

{5}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-5-0"></span>4 Tighter Upper Bound on Deniability

In this section, we show that the bit length of the randomness and the number of bootstrapping operations in the encryption algorithm can be reduced by providing a tighter upper bound on deniability of Construction 1. In Section 4.1, we revisit the analysis of the deniability provided by Agrawal et al. [1]. In Section 4.2, we analyze how our tighter deniability bound reduces the bit length of the randomness and the number of bootstrapping operations in encryption algorithm.

#### <span id="page-5-1"></span>4.1 Deniability Analysis

We provide a tighter bound for the upper bound given in Equation (2) of Proposition 1. Specifically, we prove the following Theorem 1.

<span id="page-5-2"></span>**Theorem 1.** For all PPT adversaries A, we have

$$\left|\Pr\!\left[\mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^0=1\right]-\Pr\!\left[\mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^1=1\right]\right| \leq \frac{4}{\sqrt{n}}.$$

If we let  $n = 16\delta(\lambda)^2$ , the DFHE scheme DFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec, Fake) is  $1/\delta(\lambda)$ -deniable.

*Proof.* We have

<span id="page-5-5"></span>
$$\sum_{k \ge n/2} \binom{n}{k} \left( 1 - \frac{n-k}{k+1} \right) \stackrel{\text{(a)}}{=} \sum_{k=\lceil n/2 \rceil}^{n} \binom{n}{k} - \sum_{k=\lceil n/2 \rceil}^{n} \binom{n}{k+1} \stackrel{\text{(b)}}{=} \binom{n}{\lceil \frac{n}{2} \rceil} \right) \tag{5}$$

and

<span id="page-5-3"></span>
$$\sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k} \left(\frac{n-k}{k+1} - 1\right) \stackrel{\text{(a)}}{=} \sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k+1} - \sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k}. \tag{6}$$

Equation (a) follows from Lemma 1, and Equation (b) follow from  $\binom{n}{k} = 0$  when n < k. In addition, when n is an even number, we have

$$\sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k+1} - \sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k} = \sum_{k=0}^{\frac{n}{2}-1} \binom{n}{k+1} - \sum_{k=0}^{\frac{n}{2}-1} \binom{n}{k}$$

$$= \binom{n}{\frac{n}{2}} - \binom{n}{0}$$

$$= \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} - 1$$

$$\stackrel{\text{(c)}}{=} \frac{n - \left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil + 1}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} - 1$$

$$= \left(1 + \frac{2}{n}\right) \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} - 1 \tag{7}$$

and when n is an odd number, we have

<span id="page-5-4"></span>
$$\sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k+1} - \sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k} = \sum_{k=0}^{\left\lfloor \frac{n}{2} \right\rfloor} \binom{n}{k+1} - \sum_{k=0}^{\left\lfloor \frac{n}{2} \right\rfloor} \binom{n}{k}$$
$$= \binom{n}{\left\lfloor \frac{n}{2} \right\rfloor + 1} - 1$$
$$= \binom{n}{n - \left(\left\lfloor \frac{n}{2} \right\rfloor + 1\right)} - 1$$

{6}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-6-0"></span>
$$\stackrel{\text{(d)}}{=} \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} - 1. \tag{8}$$

Equation (c) follows from Lemma 1, and Equation (d) follows from  $\lfloor \frac{n}{2} \rfloor + \lceil \frac{n}{2} \rceil = n$  for all  $n \in \mathbb{Z}$ . Hence, according to Equations (6), (7) and (8), we have

<span id="page-6-1"></span>
$$\sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k} \left( \frac{n-k}{k+1} - 1 \right) \le \left( 1 + \frac{2}{n} \right) \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} - 1. \tag{9}$$

Therefore, according to Equation (1) in Proposition 1, we have

$$\begin{split} \left| \Pr \left[ \mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{0} = 1 \right] - \Pr \left[ \mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{1} = 1 \right] \right| &\leq \frac{1}{2^{n}} \left\{ \sum_{k \geq n/2} \binom{n}{k} \left( 1 - \frac{n-k}{k+1} \right) + \sum_{k < n/2} \binom{n}{k} \left( \frac{n-k}{k+1} - 1 \right) \right\} \\ &\leq \frac{1}{2^{n}} \left\{ \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} + \left( 1 + \frac{2}{n} \right) \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} - 1 \right\} \\ &= \frac{1}{2^{n}} \left\{ \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} + \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} \right\} + \frac{2}{n} \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} - 1 \right\} \\ &\stackrel{(f)}{=} \frac{1}{2^{n}} \binom{n+1}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} + \frac{2}{n2^{n}} \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} - \frac{1}{2^{n}} \\ &< \frac{1}{2^{n}} \binom{n+1}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} + \frac{2}{n2^{n}} \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} + \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} - \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} \right\} \\ &= \frac{1}{2^{n}} \binom{n+1}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} + \frac{2}{n2^{n}} \left\{ \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil - 1} + \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} - \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} \right\} \\ &\stackrel{(f)}{=} \frac{1}{2^{n}} \binom{n+1}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} + \frac{2}{n2^{n}} \binom{n+1}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} - \frac{2}{n2^{n}} \binom{n}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} \\ &< \frac{1}{2^{n}} \left( 1 + \frac{2}{n} \right) \binom{n+1}{\left\lceil \frac{n}{2} \right\rceil} \right). \end{split} \tag{10}$$

Inequality (e) follows from Equations (5) and (9), and Equation (f) follows from Lemma 1.

Furthermore, according to Equations (7) and (8), the equality in Equation (9) holds when n is an even number. Hence, according to Equation (10), we have

<span id="page-6-3"></span><span id="page-6-2"></span>
$$\left| \Pr \left[ \mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^0 = 1 \right] - \Pr \left[ \mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^1 = 1 \right] \right| < \frac{1}{2^n} \left( 1 + \frac{2}{n} \right) \binom{n+1}{\frac{n}{2}}. \tag{11}$$

Moreover, we have

<span id="page-6-4"></span>
$$\binom{n+1}{\frac{n}{2}} = \frac{(n+1)!}{\frac{n!}{2!} (n+1-\frac{n}{2})!} = \frac{(n+1)!}{\frac{n!}{2!} (\frac{n}{2}+1)!}$$

$$\stackrel{\text{(g)}}{<} \frac{\sqrt{2\pi(n+1)} (\frac{n+1}{e})^{n+1} e^{\frac{1}{12(n+1)}}}{\sqrt{2\pi\frac{n}{2}} (\frac{n}{2e})^{\frac{n}{2}} e^{\frac{1}{12\cdot\frac{n}{2}+1}} \cdot \sqrt{2\pi(\frac{n}{2}+1)} (\frac{n+1}{e})^{\frac{n}{2}+1} e^{\frac{1}{12(\frac{n}{2}+1)+1}}$$

$$= \sqrt{\frac{n+1}{n\pi(\frac{n}{2}+1)}} \frac{(n+1)^{n+1}}{(\frac{n}{2})^{\frac{n}{2}} (\frac{n}{2}+1)^{\frac{n}{2}+1}} \cdot e^{-\frac{108n^2+228n+155}{12(n+1)(6n+1)(6n+13)}}$$

$$\stackrel{\text{(h)}}{<} \sqrt{\frac{n+1}{n\pi(\frac{n}{2}+1)}} \frac{(n+1)^{n+1}e^{0}}{(\frac{n}{2})^{\frac{n}{2}} (\frac{n}{2}+1)^{\frac{n}{2}+1}}$$

$$= \frac{2\sqrt{2} \cdot 2^{n} (n+1)^{n+\frac{3}{2}}}{\sqrt{\pi} n^{\frac{n+1}{2}} (n+2)^{\frac{n+3}{2}}}.$$
(12)

{7}------------------------------------------------

Inequality (g) follows from Lemma 2, and Inequality (h) follows from f(n) < 0 for all  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  if we let  $f(n) := -\frac{108n^2 + 228n + 155}{12(n+1)(6n+1)(6n+13)}$ .

Therefore, according to Equation (11), we have

$$\begin{split} \left| \Pr \left[ \mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{0} = 1 \right] - \Pr \left[ \mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{1} = 1 \right] \right| &< \frac{1}{2^{n}} \left( 1 + \frac{2}{n} \right) \binom{n+1}{\frac{n}{2}} \right) \\ &< \frac{1}{2^{n}} \cdot \frac{n+2}{n} \cdot \frac{2\sqrt{2} \cdot 2^{n} (n+1)^{n+\frac{3}{2}}}{\sqrt{\pi} n^{\frac{n+1}{2}} (n+2)^{\frac{n+3}{2}}} \\ &= \frac{2\sqrt{2}}{\sqrt{\pi}} \cdot \frac{(n+1)^{n+\frac{3}{2}}}{n^{\frac{n+3}{2}} (n+2)^{\frac{n+1}{2}}} \\ &< \frac{2\sqrt{2}}{\sqrt{\pi}} \cdot \frac{(n+1)^{n+\frac{3}{2}}}{n^{\frac{n+3}{2}} (n+1)^{\frac{n+1}{2}}} \\ &= \frac{2\sqrt{2}}{\sqrt{\pi}} \cdot \frac{1}{\sqrt{n}} \left( 1 + \frac{1}{n} \right) \sqrt{\left( 1 + \frac{1}{n} \right)^{n}} \\ &< \frac{2\sqrt{2}}{\sqrt{\pi}} \cdot \frac{1}{\sqrt{n}} \cdot \frac{3}{2} \cdot \sqrt{e} \\ &= \sqrt{\frac{18e}{\pi}} \frac{1}{\sqrt{n}} \\ &< \frac{4}{\sqrt{n}}. \end{split}$$

Inequality (i) follows from Equation (12), and Inequality (j) follows from  $1 + 1/n \le 3/2$  when  $n \ge 2$  and Lemma 3.

Thus, we have

$$\left|\Pr\left[\mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{0}=1\right]-\Pr\left[\mathsf{DenGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{1}=1\right]\right|\leq \frac{4}{\sqrt{n}},$$

and if we let  $n = 16\delta(\lambda)^2$ , the DFHE scheme DFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec, Fake) is  $1/\delta(\lambda)$ -deniable.

#### <span id="page-7-1"></span>4.2 Efficiency Analysis

According to Equations (3) and (4), the bit length of the randomness is  $(1 + (1 - c)k'\ell'_c + ck'\ell)n$  and the number of bootstrapping operations in the encryption algorithm is (2k' + 1)n - 1. Therefore, when n is reduced from  $100\delta(\lambda)^2$  to  $16\delta(\lambda)^2$ , the two values are reduced by 84%.

## <span id="page-7-0"></span>5 Faster DFHE Using TFHE

In FHE, the execution time of bootstrapping is extremely long. Accelerating bootstrapping is crucial for the practical applications of FHE. The DFHE scheme proposed by Agrawal et al., as described in Construction 1, also employs bootstrapping. Employing an FHE scheme with a faster bootstrapping than the BGV scheme [6] employed by Agrawal et al. can lead to a faster DFHE scheme. Therefore, we employ TFHE [11], known for its fast bootstrapping.

TFHE is a concrete FHE construction proposed by Chillotti et al. [11]. While the original TFHE proposed by Chillotti et al. is a symmetric-key FHE, Agrawal et al.'s DFHE construction requires a public-key FHE. Hence, we employ a public-key variant of TFHE. Several public-key TFHE schemes have been proposed by Joye [19,20]. We employ the scheme proposed in [20, Section 3] due to its smaller public key size and smaller noise variance.

<span id="page-7-2"></span>We recall Joye's public-key TFHE scheme [20, Section 3] below. According to the functional completeness of the NAND gate [25], which states that any logic circuit can be constructed solely from NAND gates, we describe TFHE.Eval below specifically for homomorphic NAND computation.

{8}------------------------------------------------

Construction 2 (TFHE [20]) Let  $\circledast: \mathbb{Z}^n \times \mathbb{Z}^n \to \mathbb{Z}^n$  be a reverse negative wrapped convolution.<sup>3</sup> A publickey TFHE scheme for the message space  $\mathcal{M} = \{0,1\}$ , TFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec), is described below.

- TFHE.Gen( $1^{\lambda}$ )  $\rightarrow$  (pp, pk, sk): On input the unary representation of the security parameter  $\lambda$ , do the following:
  - 1. Set  $n = \varphi(M)$  for some  $M \in \mathbb{N}$ .
  - 2. Select  $q \in \mathbb{Z}_{>0}$  with 2|q and set  $\Delta = q/2$ .
  - 3. Set two discretized error distributions  $\chi_1$  and  $\chi_2$  over  $\mathbb{Z}$  with a variance  $\sigma$ .
  - 4. Set  $\widetilde{\boldsymbol{b}} = \widetilde{\boldsymbol{a}} \circledast \boldsymbol{s} + \boldsymbol{e}$  with  $\boldsymbol{s} = (s_1, \dots, s_n) \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^n, \widetilde{\boldsymbol{a}} = (\widetilde{a}_1, \dots, \widetilde{a}_n) \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/q\mathbb{Z})^n, \text{ and } \boldsymbol{e} \leftarrow \chi_1^n.$
  - 5. Output  $pp = (n, \sigma, 2, q, \Delta)$ ,  $pk = (\widetilde{\boldsymbol{a}}, \widetilde{\boldsymbol{b}})$ , and sk = s.
- TFHE.Enc(pk, m)  $\rightarrow$  ct: On input a public key pk and a message m, do the following:
  - 1. Set  $\mathbf{a} = \widetilde{\mathbf{a}} \circledast \mathbf{r} + \mathbf{e}_1$  and  $b = \langle \widetilde{\mathbf{b}}, \mathbf{r} \rangle + \Delta m + e_2$  with  $\mathbf{r} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^n$ ,  $\mathbf{e}_1 \leftarrow \widehat{\chi}_1^n$ , and  $e_2 \leftarrow \widehat{\chi}_2$ .
  - 2.  $Output ct = (\boldsymbol{a}, b)$ .
- TFHE.Eval((BRK, KSK), NAND,  $ct_1, ct_2$ )  $\rightarrow$  ct: On input a blind rotation key BRK, a key switching key KSK, a circuit for NAND computation, and two ciphertexts  $ct_1$  and  $ct_2$ , do the following:<sup>4</sup>
  - 1.  $Output \operatorname{ct} = \operatorname{boot}((\mathsf{BRK}, \mathsf{KSK}), (\mathbf{0}, 5q/8) \operatorname{ct}_1 \operatorname{ct}_2).$
- TFHE.Dec(sk, ct)  $\rightarrow$  m: On input a secret key sk and a ciphertext ct, do the following:
  - 1. Output  $\lfloor ((b \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \mod q) / \Delta \rceil \mod 2$ .

To show that the TFHE scheme (Construction 2) can be transformed into a DFHE scheme using Agrawal et al.'s construction (Construction 1), we prove the following Theorem 2.

<span id="page-8-2"></span>**Theorem 2.** The public-key TFHE scheme  $\mathsf{TFHE} = (\mathsf{Gen}, \mathsf{Enc}, \mathsf{Eval}, \mathsf{Dec})$  described in Construction 2 is a weak version of special FHE scheme.

*Proof.* We prove that the FHE scheme TFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) satisfies the five properties of special FHE (Definition 5).

- 1. The TFHE.Eval is deterministic because its underlying boot is deterministic when the keys BRK and KSK are fixed (see [11,18] for details on bootstrapping). The TFHE.Dec is also deterministic. Hence, the scheme TFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) satisfies property 1 of special FHE.
- 2. The scheme TFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) satisfies property 2 of special FHE, assuming the hardness of the learning with errors (LWE) problem [22].
- 3. For all  $\operatorname{ct} = (\boldsymbol{a}, b) \in (\mathbb{Z}/q\mathbb{Z})^{n+1}$  and all  $(\operatorname{pk}, \operatorname{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{TFHE}.\mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda})$ , we have

$$\mathsf{TFHE}.\mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk},\mathsf{ct}) = \left\lfloor \frac{(b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q}{\Delta} \right\rfloor \bmod 2 \in \{0,1\} = \mathcal{M}.$$

Hence, the scheme TFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) satisfies property 3 of special FHE.

4. We have

$$\begin{split} \Pr[\mathsf{TFHE.Dec}(\mathsf{sk},\mathsf{ct}) = 0] &= \Pr\bigg[\bigg\lfloor \frac{(b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q}{\Delta} \bigg] \bmod 2 = 0\bigg] \\ &\stackrel{\text{(a)}}{=} \sum_{i = -\infty}^{\infty} \Pr\bigg[\bigg\lceil \frac{4\{(b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q\} - q}{2q} \bigg\rceil = 2i\bigg] \\ &\stackrel{\text{(b)}}{=} \sum_{i = -\infty}^{\infty} \Pr\bigg[2i - 1 < \frac{4\{(b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q\} - q}{2q} \le 2i\bigg] \\ &= \sum_{i = -\infty}^{\infty} \Pr\bigg[\frac{4i - 1}{4}q < (b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q \le \frac{4i + 1}{4}q\bigg] \end{split}$$

<span id="page-8-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> For the formal definition of reverse negative wrapped convolution [20], see Definition 13 in Appendix A.3.

<span id="page-8-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> Although we omitted them from this paper for simplicity, the blind rotation key BRK and the key switching key KSK are the bootstrapping keys generated by the TFHE.Gen algorithm. These keys are made public as part of the public key.

{9}------------------------------------------------

$$\stackrel{\text{(c)}}{=} \Pr \left[ 0 \le (b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q \le \frac{1}{4} q \right] + \Pr \left[ \frac{3}{4} q < (b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q \le q - 1 \right], \tag{13}$$

where  $\operatorname{ct} = (\boldsymbol{a}, b) \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/q\mathbb{Z})^{n+1}$  and  $(\operatorname{pk}, \operatorname{sk}) \leftarrow \operatorname{TFHE.Gen}(1^{\lambda})$ . Equation (a) follows from  $\Delta = q/2$ ,  $\lfloor x \rceil = \lceil x - 1/2 \rceil$  for all  $x \in \mathbb{R}$ , and a property of the modulo-2 operation. Equation (b) follows from the definition of the ceiling function. Equation (c) follows from  $\operatorname{Pr}\left[\frac{4i-1}{4}q < (b-\langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q \leq \frac{4i+1}{4}q\right] = 0$  for all  $i \in \mathbb{Z} \setminus \{0,1\}$  and a property of the modulo-q operation.

Since  $(\boldsymbol{a},b) \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\mathbb{Z}/q\mathbb{Z})^{n+1}$ , we have

<span id="page-9-0"></span>
$$\Pr[b=0] = \dots = \Pr[b=q-1] = \frac{1}{q}.$$
 (14)

In addition, for all  $j \in [0, q-1]$ , let  $p(j) := \Pr[\langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle \mod q = j]$ . Then, we have

<span id="page-9-3"></span><span id="page-9-2"></span><span id="page-9-1"></span>
$$\sum_{j=0}^{q-1} p(k) = 1. (15)$$

Hence, for all  $k \in [0, q - 1]$ , we have

$$\Pr[(b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \mod q = k] \\
= \Pr[b = q - 1]p(q - 1 - k) + \dots + \Pr[b = k]p(0) + \Pr[b = k - 1]p(q - 1) + \dots + \Pr[b = 0]p(q - k) \\
\stackrel{\text{(d)}}{=} \frac{1}{q} \{p(q - 1 - k) + \dots + p(0) + p(q - 1) + \dots + p(q - k)\} \\
\stackrel{\text{(e)}}{=} \frac{1}{q}, \tag{16}$$

where  $\mathsf{ct} = (\boldsymbol{a}, b) \xleftarrow{\$} (\mathbb{Z}/q\mathbb{Z})^{n+1}$  and  $(\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{TFHE}.\mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda})$ . Equation (d) follows from Equation (14). Equation (e) follows from Equation (15). Hence, we have

$$\begin{split} \Pr[\mathsf{TFHE.Dec}(\mathsf{sk},\mathsf{ct}) &= 0] \overset{(\mathsf{f})}{=} \sum_{k=0}^{\left\lfloor \frac{1}{4}q \right\rfloor} \Pr[(b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q = k] + \sum_{k=\left\lceil \frac{3}{4}q \right\rceil}^{q-1} \Pr[(b - \langle \boldsymbol{a}, \boldsymbol{s} \rangle) \bmod q = k] \\ &\stackrel{(\mathsf{g})}{=} \frac{1}{q} \left\{ \left( \left\lfloor \frac{1}{4}q \right\rfloor - 0 + 1 \right) + \left( q - 1 - \left\lceil \frac{3}{4}q \right\rceil + 1 \right) \right\} \\ &= \frac{1}{q} \left( \left\lfloor \frac{1}{4}q \right\rfloor + 1 + q - \left\lceil \frac{3}{4}q \right\rceil \right) \\ &\stackrel{(\mathsf{h})}{>} \frac{1}{q} \left\{ \frac{1}{4}q - 1 + 1 + q - \left( \frac{3}{4}q + 1 \right) \right\} \\ &= \frac{1}{2} - \frac{1}{q}, \end{split}$$

where  $\mathsf{ct} = (\boldsymbol{a}, b) \xleftarrow{\$} (\mathbb{Z}/q\mathbb{Z})^{n+1}$  and  $(\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{TFHE}.\mathsf{Gen}(1^\lambda)$ . Equation (f) follows from Equation (13). Equation (g) follows from Equation (16). Inequality (h) follows from  $x - 1 < \lfloor x \rfloor, \lceil x \rceil < x + 1$  for all  $x \in \mathbb{R}$ .

Thus, the scheme TFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) satisfies property 4 of special FHE.

5. TFHE assumes circular security [11,21]. Hence, the scheme TFHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) satisfies property 5 of special FHE.

Thus, the scheme  $\mathsf{TFHE} = (\mathsf{Gen}, \mathsf{Enc}, \mathsf{Eval}, \mathsf{Dec})$  is a weak version of special FHE scheme.

A single bootstrapping operation in the BGV scheme has a latency of 15 seconds, whereas in TFHE it is merely 0.0295 seconds [3]. In the DFHE construction by Agrawal et al., which relies on frequent sequential bootstrapping operations, using TFHE instead of BGV results in a significant speedup, even accounting for BGV's single instruction multiple data (SIMD) bootstrapping operations.

{10}------------------------------------------------

## 6 Conclusion

In this work, we improved the efficiency of the DFHE scheme by Agrawal et al. using two techniques. First, we reduced the bit length of the randomness and the number of bootstrapping operations in the encryption algorithm by deriving a tighter upper bound on the scheme's deniability. Second, we constructed a faster DFHE scheme by showing that TFHE, which is known for its fast bootstrapping, is a special FHE.

Future work includes investigating constructions of DFHE based on other FHE schemes and further improving the algorithm's efficiency. Our research did not achieve an asymptotic (i.e., order-level) improvement in performance. For real-world applications, achieving such an order-level efficiency improvement is a crucial next step.

Acknowledgments. This work was supported by JSPS KAKENHI Grant Numbers JP23H00468, JP23H00479, JP23K17455, JP23K21644, JP23K24846, and JST K Program Grant Number JPMJKP24U2, Japan.

## References

- <span id="page-10-13"></span>1. Agrawal, S., Goldwasser, S., Mossel, S.: Deniable fully homomorphic encryption from LWE. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1588 (2020), <https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1588>
- <span id="page-10-11"></span>2. Agrawal, S., Goldwasser, S., Mossel, S.: Deniable fully homomorphic encryption from learning with errors. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2021, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 12826, pp. 641–670. Springer, Cham (2021). [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1\\_22](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1_22)
- <span id="page-10-15"></span>3. Al Badawi, A., Polyakov, Y.: Demystifying bootstrapping in fully homomorphic encryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2023/149 (2023), <https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/149>
- <span id="page-10-12"></span>4. Barnes, C.W.: Euler's constant and e. The American Mathematical Monthly 91(7), 428–430 (1984). [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.2307/2322999) [org/10.2307/2322999](https://doi.org/10.2307/2322999)
- <span id="page-10-3"></span>5. Brakerski, Z.: Fully homomorphic encryption without modulus switching from classical GapSVP. In: Safavi-Naini, R., Canetti, R. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2012. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 7417, pp. 868–886. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2012). [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5\\_50](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-32009-5_50)
- <span id="page-10-2"></span>6. Brakerski, Z., Gentry, C., Vaikuntanathan, V.: (leveled) fully homomorphic encryption without bootstrapping. ACM Transactions on Computation Theory (TOCT) 6(3), 1–36 (2014). <https://doi.org/10.1145/2633600>
- <span id="page-10-14"></span>7. Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A.: An efficient system for non-transferable anonymous credentials with optional anonymity revocation. In: Pfitzmann, B. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2001. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 2045, pp. 93–118. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2001). [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44987-6_7) [3-540-44987-6\\_7](https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44987-6_7)
- <span id="page-10-10"></span>8. Canetti, R., Dwork, C., Naor, M., Ostrovsky, R.: Deniable encryption. In: Kaliski, Jr., B.S. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO'97. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 1294, pp. 90–104. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (1997). <https://doi.org/10.1007/BFb0052229>
- <span id="page-10-9"></span>9. Cheon, J.H., Han, K., Kim, A., Kim, M., Song, Y.: Bootstrapping for approximate homomorphic encryption. In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2018, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10820, pp. 360–384. Springer, Cham (2018). [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78381-9\\_14](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78381-9_14)
- <span id="page-10-8"></span>10. Cheon, J.H., Kim, A., Kim, M., Song, Y.S.: Homomorphic encryption for arithmetic of approximate numbers. In: Takagi, T., Peyrin, T. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2017, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10624, pp. 409–437. Springer, Cham (2017). [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70694-8\\_15](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-70694-8_15)
- <span id="page-10-7"></span>11. Chillotti, I., Gama, N., Georgieva, M., Izabachène, M.: TFHE: Fast fully homomorphic encryption over the torus. Journal of Cryptology 33(1), 34–91 (Jan 2020). <https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-019-09319-x>
- <span id="page-10-6"></span>12. Ducas, L., Micciancio, D.: FHEW: Bootstrapping homomorphic encryption in less than a second. In: Oswald, E., Fischlin, M. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2015, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 9056, pp. 617–640. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2015). [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46800-5\\_24](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46800-5_24)
- <span id="page-10-4"></span>13. Fan, J., Vercauteren, F.: Somewhat practical fully homomorphic encryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2012/144 (2012), <https://eprint.iacr.org/2012/144>
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>14. Gentry, C.: A Fully Homomorphic Encryption Scheme. Phd thesis, Stanford University (2009), [https://crypto.](https://crypto.stanford.edu/craig/) [stanford.edu/craig/](https://crypto.stanford.edu/craig/)
- <span id="page-10-0"></span>15. Gentry, C.: Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In: Mitzenmacher, M. (ed.) 41st Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing. pp. 169–178. ACM Press (2009). <https://doi.org/10.1145/1536414.1536440>
- <span id="page-10-5"></span>16. Gentry, C., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Homomorphic encryption from learning with errors: Conceptuallysimpler, asymptotically-faster, attribute-based. In: Canetti, R., Garay, J.A. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2013, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 8042, pp. 75–92. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2013). [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40041-4\\_5](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-40041-4_5)

{11}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-11-1"></span>17. Goldreich, O., Micali, S., Wigderson, A.: How to play any mental game or A completeness theorem for protocols with honest majority. In: Aho, A. (ed.) 19th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing. pp. 218–229. ACM Press (1987). https://doi.org/10.1145/28395.28420
- <span id="page-11-12"></span>18. Hwang, I., Min, S., Seo, J., Song, Y.: Practical TFHE ciphertext sanitization for oblivious circuit evaluation. In: Huang, C.Y., Chen, J.C., Shieh, S.P., Lie, D., Cortier, V. (eds.) ACM CCS 2025: 32nd Conference on Computer and Communications Security. pp. 4064–4078. ACM Press (2025). https://doi.org/10.1145/3719027.3765231
- <span id="page-11-10"></span>19. Joye, M.: SoK: Fully homomorphic encryption over the [discretized] torus. IACR Transactions on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems **2022**(4), 661–692 (2022). https://doi.org/10.46586/tches.v2022.i4.661-692
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>20. Joye, M.: TFHE public-key encryption revisited. In: Oswald, E. (ed.) Topics in Cryptology – CT-RSA 2024. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14643, pp. 277–291. Springer, Cham (2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-58868-6 11
- <span id="page-11-14"></span>21. Micciancio, D., Vaikuntanathan, V.: SoK: Learning with errors, circular security, and fully homomorphic encryption. In: Tang, Q., Teague, V. (eds.) PKC 2024: 27th International Conference on Theory and Practice of Public Key Cryptography, Part IV. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14604, pp. 291–321. Springer, Cham (2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-57728-4 10
- <span id="page-11-13"></span>22. Regev, O.: On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptography. Journal of the ACM (JACM) **56**(6), 1–40 (2009). https://doi.org/10.1145/1568318.1568324
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>23. Rivest, R.L., Adleman, L., Dertouzos, M.L.: On data banks and privacy homomorphisms. Foundations of Secure Computation 4(11), 169–180 (1978)
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>24. Robbins, H.: A remark on stirling's formula. The American Mathematical Monthly 62(1), 26-29 (1955). https://doi.org/10.2307/2308012
- <span id="page-11-11"></span>25. Sheffer, H.M.: A set of five independent postulates for boolean algebras, with application to logical constants. Transactions of the American Mathematical Society 14(4), 481–488 (1913). https://doi.org/10.2307/1988701
- <span id="page-11-0"></span>26. Yao, A.C.C.: Protocols for secure computations (extended abstract). In: 23rd Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science. pp. 160–164. IEEE Computer Society Press (1982). https://doi.org/10.1109/SFCS.1982.38

## A Additional Preliminaries

## <span id="page-11-8"></span>A.1 Omitted Definitions for FHE

<span id="page-11-5"></span>**Definition 6 (Correctness).** An FHE scheme FHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) is correct if for all security parameters  $\lambda$ , all polynomial-time circuits  $C \colon \mathcal{M}^k \to \mathcal{M}$ , and all messages  $m_i \in \mathcal{M}$  for  $i \in [k]$ , we have

$$\Pr\begin{bmatrix} \mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk}, \mathsf{Eval}(\mathsf{pk}, C, \mathsf{ct}_1, \dots, \mathsf{ct}_k)) \\ = C(m_1, \dots, m_k) \\ \vdots \\ \forall i \in [k], \mathsf{ct}_i \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}, m_i) \end{bmatrix} \geq 1 - \mathsf{negl}(\lambda).$$

<span id="page-11-6"></span>**Definition 7 (Compactness).** An FHE scheme FHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) is compact if there exists a polynomial poly(·) such that for all security parameters  $\lambda$ , all polynomial-time circuits  $C: \mathcal{M}^k \to \mathcal{M}$ , and all messages  $m_i \in \mathcal{M}$  for  $i \in [k]$ , we have

$$\Pr \left[ |\mathsf{Eval}(\mathsf{pk}, C, \mathsf{ct}_1, \dots, \mathsf{ct}_k)| \leq \mathsf{poly}(\lambda) : \frac{(\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}(1^\lambda)}{\forall i \in [k], \mathsf{ct}_i \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}, m_i)} \right] = 1.$$

<span id="page-11-7"></span>**Definition 8 (IND-CPA Security).** An FHE scheme FHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) is IND-CPA secure if for all PPT adversaries A, we have

$$\left|\Pr \big[\mathsf{CPAGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^0(\lambda) = 1\big] - \Pr \big[\mathsf{CPAGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^1(\lambda) = 1\big] \right| \leq \mathsf{negl}(\lambda),$$

where  $\mathsf{CPAGame}^b_{\mathcal{A}}(\lambda)$  is a game between a challenger and a PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  with a challenge bit b defined as follows:

- The challenger samples (pk, sk)  $\leftarrow$  Gen(1 $^{\lambda}$ ), and sends pk to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- The adversary A chooses  $m_0, m_1 \in \mathcal{M}$ , and sends  $(m_0, m_1)$  to the challenger.
- The challenger computes  $\mathsf{ct} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}, m_b)$ , and sends  $\mathsf{ct}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- <span id="page-11-9"></span>- The adversary A outputs a bit b' which we define as the output of the game.

{12}------------------------------------------------

**Definition 9 (Circular Security).** A public-key encryption scheme with key generation algorithm Gen and encryption algorithm Enc is circular secure if for all PPT adversaries A, we have

$$\left|\Pr\left[\mathsf{CircGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{0}(\lambda)=1\right]-\Pr\left[\mathsf{CircGame}_{\mathcal{A}}^{1}(\lambda)=1\right]\right|\leq \mathsf{negl}(\lambda),$$

where  $\mathsf{Circ}\mathsf{Game}^b_{\mathcal{A}}(\lambda)$  is a game between a challenger and a PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  with a challenge bit b defined as follows:

- The challenger samples  $(pk, sk) \leftarrow Gen(1^{\lambda})$ , computes  $ct_{sk} \leftarrow Enc(pk, sk)$ , and sends  $(pk, ct_{sk})$  to A.
- The adversary A chooses  $m_0, m_1 \in \mathcal{M}$ , and sends  $(m_0, m_1)$  to the challenger.
- The challenger computes  $\mathsf{ct} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}, m_b)$ , and sends  $\mathsf{ct}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- The adversary A outputs a bit b' which we define as the output of the game.

**Definition 10 (Valid Ciphertext).** A ciphertext ct of an FHE scheme FHE = (Gen, Enc, Eval, Dec) is a valid ciphertext of m if either

$$\mathsf{ct} \leftarrow \mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{pk}, m),$$

or for all polynomial-sized circuits  $C: \mathcal{M} \to \mathcal{M}$ , we have

$$\Pr \big[ \mathsf{Dec}(\mathsf{sk}, \mathsf{Eval}(\mathsf{pk}, C, \mathsf{ct})) = C(m) : (\mathsf{pk}, \mathsf{sk}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}(1^{\lambda}) \big] \geq 1 - \mathsf{negl}(\lambda).$$

<span id="page-12-2"></span>**Definition 11 (Addition Modulo 2).** The homomorphic evaluation of addition modulo 2 circuit, denoted  $by \oplus_2 : (\mathcal{R}^{\ell_c})^k \to \mathcal{R}^{\ell_c}$ , is defined as

$$\bigoplus_2(\mathsf{ct}_1,\ldots,\mathsf{ct}_k)=\mathsf{ct},$$

where  $x_i \in \{0,1\}$  for  $i \in [k]$ ,  $\mathsf{ct}_i$  is a valid ciphertext of  $x_i$  for  $i \in [k]$ , and  $\mathsf{ct}$  is a valid ciphertext of  $\sum_{i=1}^k x_i \pmod{2}$ .

#### <span id="page-12-1"></span>A.2 Omitted Definition for DFHE

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Definition 12 (Deniability Compactness [2]).** A  $1/\delta(\lambda)$ -deniable scheme DFHE is deniability compact if there exists a polynomial poly(·) such that for all security parameters  $\lambda$  and all messages  $m \in \mathcal{M}$ , we have

$$\Pr[|\mathsf{Enc}(\mathsf{dpk}, m)| \le \mathsf{poly}(\lambda)] = 1,$$

regardless of the encryption running time.

#### <span id="page-12-4"></span>A.3 Omitted Definition for TFHE

<span id="page-12-3"></span>**Definition 13 (Reverse Negative Wrapped Convolution [20]).** For  $n \in \mathbb{N}$  and  $i \in [n]$ , the reverse negative wrapped convolution of two vectors  $\mathbf{u} = (u_1, \dots, u_n), \mathbf{v} = (v_1, \dots, v_n) \in \mathbb{Z}^n$  is the vector  $\mathbf{w} = \mathbf{u} \circledast \mathbf{v} = (\mathbf{u} \circledast_1 \mathbf{v}, \dots, \mathbf{u} \circledast_n \mathbf{v}) \in \mathbb{Z}^n$  defined by

$$\boldsymbol{u} \circledast_i \boldsymbol{v} \coloneqq \sum_{j=1}^i u_j v_{n+j-i} - \sum_{j=i+1}^n u_j v_{j-i}.$$