

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Delegate and Verify the Update Keys of Revocable Identity-Based Encryption

Kwangsu Lee\*

#### Abstract

Revocable identity-based encryption (RIBE) is an extension of identity-based encryption (IBE) and it supports efficient revocation of private keys. In the past, many efficient RIBE schemes have been proposed, but research on efficiently delegating the generation of update keys to a cloud server is somewhat insufficient. In this paper, we newly introduce the concept of delegated RIBE (DRIBE) that can delegate the generation of update keys to the semi-trusted cloud server and define the security models of DRIBE. Next, we propose a DRIBE scheme by generically combining a hierarchical IBE (HIBE) scheme, an identity-based broadcast encryption (IBBE) scheme, and a collision-resistant hash function. In addition, we propose a DRIBE-INC scheme that generates an occasional base update key and a periodic incremental update key to reduce the size of update keys in our DRIBE scheme.

Keywords: Identity-based encryption, Key revocation, Subset cover, Update key delegation, Public verifiability.

<sup>\*</sup>Sejong University, Seoul, Korea. Email: kwangsu@sejong.ac.kr.

{1}------------------------------------------------

# Contents

| 1 |                                          | Introduction                                      | 3      |  |  |  |  |  |
|---|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|--------|--|--|--|--|--|
|   | 1.1                                      | Out Contributions                                 | 3      |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 1.2                                      | Related Work<br>                                  | 4      |  |  |  |  |  |
| 2 | Preliminaries<br>5                       |                                                   |        |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 2.1                                      | Hierarchical Identity-Based Encryption<br>        | 5      |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 2.2                                      | Identity-Based Broadcast Encryption               | 6      |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 2.3                                      | Collision Resistant Hash Function<br>             | 7      |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 2.4                                      | Binary Tree<br>                                   | 7      |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 2.5                                      | Complete Subtree Method<br>                       | 7      |  |  |  |  |  |
| 3 | Revocable IBE with Delegated Update Keys |                                                   |        |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.1                                      | Definition<br>                                    | 8<br>8 |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.2                                      | Design Principle                                  | 11     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.3                                      | Construction                                      | 12     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.4                                      | Correctness<br>                                   | 13     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.5                                      | Security Analysis<br>                             | 14     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 3.6                                      | Discussions<br>                                   | 17     |  |  |  |  |  |
| 4 |                                          | Delegated RIBE with Incremental Update Keys<br>18 |        |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 4.1                                      | Definition<br>                                    | 18     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 4.2                                      | Construction                                      | 19     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 4.3                                      | Correctness<br>                                   | 22     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 4.4                                      | Security Analysis<br>                             | 22     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 4.5                                      | Discussions<br>                                   | 26     |  |  |  |  |  |
| 5 | Instantiations<br>27                     |                                                   |        |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 5.1                                      | DRIBE from Bilinear Maps                          | 27     |  |  |  |  |  |
|   | 5.2                                      | DRIBE from Lattices<br>                           | 28     |  |  |  |  |  |
| 6 |                                          | Conclusion                                        | 28     |  |  |  |  |  |

{2}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-2-0"></span>1 Introduction

Revocable identity-based encryption (RIBE) is an extension of identity-based encryption (IBE) in which an identity string plays the role of a public key and additionally it supports the key revocation functionality [\[3,](#page-28-0) [6\]](#page-28-1). In a public key encryption (PKE) scheme, a credential of a user can be revoked by using a certificate revocation mechanism since there is a certificate that binds the public key of a user with the identity of the user. However, it is difficult to provide the key revocation for an IBE scheme because the IBE scheme does not have a certificate. In the IBE scheme, there are two methods of revoking the credential of a user: a direct revocation method in which a sender specifies a receiver set in a ciphertext, and an indirect revocation method in which a trusted center periodically issues new (updated) keys for non-revoked users. In this paper, we consider IBE schemes that support the indirect revocation method because the sender does not need to care about revoked users when generating ciphertexts.

The first revocation method for IBE was presented by Boneh and Franklin [\[6\]](#page-28-1), but their method has the disadvantage of requiring a secure channel between a user and the trusted center. An RIBE scheme that efficiently processes the key revocation of a user's private key by using a binary tree was first proposed by Boldyreva et al. [\[3\]](#page-28-0). The main idea of their RIBE scheme is that a private key is associated with the path nodes of the binary tree and an update key is associated with the cover nodes of the binary tree that excludes leaf nodes that are related to revoked private keys. In this case, a common node exists between the path nodes and the cover nodes unless the private key is revoked in the update key. If the master key of the RIBE scheme is separated for each tree node by using a secret sharing scheme, then a decryption key can be derived by recovering the shared secret for the corresponding common node and this decryption key can be used to decrypt a ciphertext. After the first construction of an efficient RIBE scheme, various RIBE schemes that have improved the security or efficiency of the previous RIBE scheme have been proposed [\[21,](#page-29-0)[24,](#page-29-1)[27,](#page-29-2)[31,](#page-30-0)[34\]](#page-30-1). The key revocation method of RIBE also can be applied to an HIBE scheme that supports private key delegation, so various revocable HIBE (RHIBE) schemes have been proposed [\[19,](#page-29-3) [22,](#page-29-4) [29,](#page-30-2) [30,](#page-30-3) [32\]](#page-30-4).

As described above, most of the RIBE schemes require a trusted center to generate a user's private key and periodically issue an update key for non-revoked users. In order to reduce the load on the trusted center, we may consider to delegate the generation of update keys to a cloud server. However, the previous RIBE schemes using a binary tree require the same master key for the generation of private keys and update keys because the private key generation and the update key generation algorithms use the same state information of the binary tree. For this reason, if the generation of update keys is simply delegated to the cloud server, then it is possible for the cloud server to easily derive the user's private key from the state information. In order to support secure delegation of update keys, an RIBE scheme that does not use a binary tree has been proposed [\[23\]](#page-29-5), but this scheme has the disadvantage such that the update key size is linearly dependent on the number of non-revoked users in the system. In this paper, we ask whether it is possible to design an RIBE scheme that can delegate the generation of update keys to a *semi-trusted* cloud server while supporting efficient key revocation by using a binary tree.

#### <span id="page-2-1"></span>1.1 Out Contributions

Definition of DRIBE. We first define delegated RIBE (DRIBE) that can delegate the generation of an update key in RIBE to a semi-trusted cloud server. In DRIBE, a trusted center only generates private keys by using a master secret key and manages a revocation list *RL*. For the generation of update keys, a semi-trusted cloud server periodically generates an update key for the revocation list by using a master update key received from the trusted center, and then it broadcasts the update key to non-revoked users. At this time, anyone can publicly verify that the update key generated by the cloud server is valid on the revocation list *RL*. Similar

{3}------------------------------------------------

to the security of RIBE, the DRIBE scheme also provides indistinguishability under chosen-plaintext attack (IND-CPA) security in which an external attacker cannot distinguish between challenge messages. We also define indistinguishability under update-key attack (IND-UKA) security in which the semi-trusted cloud server cannot obtain any useful information to distinguish between challenge messages if a private key for a challenge identity is not given.

Delegated RIBE. Next, we construct a DRIBE scheme that supports the delegation of update keys by generically combining an HIBE scheme, an IBBE scheme, and a hash function, and then we prove the security of our construction when a cloud server is semi-trusted. The reason why it is difficult to support the delegation of update keys in the previous RIBE schemes that use a binary tree is that the same state information must be shared for the generation of private keys and update keys. To support the delegation of update keys, we pay attention to the RIBE scheme of Ma and Lin (ML-RIBE) [\[25\]](#page-29-6) that additionally provides the decryption key exposure resistance (DKER) property. The ML-RIBE scheme combines an IBE scheme and an HIBE scheme, and the generation of private keys and the generation of update keys are separated from each other because the master secret key of HIBE is used to generate private keys and the master secret key of IBE is only used to generate update keys. The DRIBE scheme proposed in this paper combines an HIBE scheme, an IBBE scheme, and a hash function, so that the ciphertext size and the secret key size are compact, and the update key size is proportional to the product of the number of revoked users and the security parameter.

DRIBE with Incremental Updates. The drawback of our DRIBE scheme is that the update key size is somewhat large because the depth of a binary tree is set to be proportional to the length of an identity string. To overcome this shortcoming, we propose a DRIBE-INC scheme that supports the generation of incremental update keys and prove the security when a cloud server is semi-trusted. The concept of incremental revocation was already used in the form of delta certificate revocation lists (delta-CRLs) when issuing CRLs for certificate revocation in the public-key infrastructure [\[11\]](#page-28-2). The DRIBE-INC scheme separates the update key into two types, a base update key and an incremental update key. For this, a time step *T<sup>s</sup>* to generate the base update key is fixed and a time period *T* is expressed as *T* = *T<sup>b</sup>* + *T<sup>c</sup>* where *T* ≡ *T<sup>c</sup>* mod *T<sup>s</sup>* . At this time, if *T* is a multiple of *T<sup>s</sup>* (*T* = *Tb*), a base update key that considers non-revoked users before *T<sup>b</sup>* is issued. Otherwise, an incremental update key that considers non-revoked users from *T<sup>b</sup>* to *T* is issued. When a ciphertext with an identity *ID* and time *T* is given, we can decrypt the ciphertext by combining a private key with base and incremental update keys if *ID* is not revoked both the base update key at time *T<sup>b</sup>* and the incremental update keys at time *T*. In general, the size of an incremental update key is relatively small since the number of revoked users during the short period of time is rather small compared to the number of revoked users in the base update key. To design the DRIBE-INC scheme, we use the DRIBE scheme to process base update keys, and an HIBE scheme, an IBBE scheme, and hash function to process incremental update keys.

### <span id="page-3-0"></span>1.2 Related Work

IBE is an extension of public-key encryption (PKE) that can use the user's identity string as a public key [\[33\]](#page-30-5). The first IBE scheme was proposed by Boneh and Franklin [\[6\]](#page-28-1), and they constructed their IBE scheme by using a bilinear map and proved its security in the random oracle model. Since then, various IBE schemes have been proposed in bilinear maps, quadratic residues, and lattices [\[4,](#page-28-3) [10,](#page-28-4) [13\]](#page-28-5). In order to use an IBE scheme in a real application environment, an RIBE scheme that provides the functionality of effectively revoking a user's private key is required. An RIBE scheme that provides efficient key revocation using a binary tree was first proposed by Boldyreva et al. [\[3\]](#page-28-0). Since then, various RIBE schemes have been proposed 

{4}------------------------------------------------

to enhance the security or improve the performance [\[9,](#page-28-6) [21,](#page-29-0) [24,](#page-29-1) [31\]](#page-30-0). Recently, generic methods for designing RIBE schemes using binary trees has been proposed [\[18,](#page-29-7)[25\]](#page-29-6). A key principle that enables the generic RIBE design is to make the path of a binary tree associated with a ciphertext instead of associated with a private key. However, since the generic RIBE design requires a larger binary tree compared to the existing direct RIBE design method, there is a problem of inefficiency in terms of update key size. In order to reduce the computational load of a key generation center in RIBE, an RIBE scheme that delegates the generation of update keys to a cloud server was proposed, but the proposed RIBE scheme has a problem that the size of an update key increases in proportion to the number of users [\[23\]](#page-29-5).

HIBE is an extension of IBE that expresses the identity of a user as an hierarchical identity vector string and provides the functionality of delegating the private key generation to reduce the computational burden of a key generation center [\[14,](#page-28-7) [16\]](#page-29-8). After the first constructions of HIBE, various HIBE schemes have been proposed in bilinear maps and lattices [\[2,](#page-27-2) [5,](#page-28-8) [8,](#page-28-9) [35\]](#page-30-6). The first RHIBE scheme that provides the revocation of private keys was proposed by Seo and Emura [\[30\]](#page-30-3). In order to design the first RHIBE scheme, they devised a method similar to the RIBE scheme to support the revocation of private keys by using a binary tree for each individual user. After that, Seo and Emura also proposed a more efficient RHIBE scheme in which the private key of an individual user do not need to remember the history of private key delegation [\[32\]](#page-30-4). Lee and Park proposed a new RHIBE scheme that surprisingly reduced the private key size and update key size of the existing RHIBE scheme [\[22\]](#page-29-4). They devised a new type of HIBE scheme to improve the performance so that the private key and update key size of their RHIBE scheme are not significantly affected by the depth of an identity string. In addition, other RHIBE schemes with improved security and new functionalities have been proposed [\[17,](#page-29-9) [19,](#page-29-3) [29\]](#page-30-2). Recently, Lee and Kim [\[20\]](#page-29-10) proposed generic RHIBE schemes by extending the generic RIBE schemes [\[18,](#page-29-7)[25\]](#page-29-6). They presented three interesting generic RHIBE schemes with different combinations of the underlying HIBE schemes and tree-based revocation schemes. However, they did not consider the security model of delegating the generation of update keys to a cloud server.

# <span id="page-4-0"></span>2 Preliminaries

In this section, we review the definitions of HIBE, IBBE, hash function, and the complete subtree (CS) method in a binary tree, which are the building blocks of our DRIBE scheme.

#### <span id="page-4-1"></span>2.1 Hierarchical Identity-Based Encryption

Hierarchical IBE (HIBE) is an extension of IBE, which expresses the user identity as a hierarchical identity vector and supports the delegation of the generation of private keys [\[14,](#page-28-7) [16\]](#page-29-8). In HIBE, a trusted center generates the private key of a user by using a master key, and an upper-level user who owns a private key can issue the private key of a lower-level user. A sender creates a ciphertext by specifying the hierarchical identity of a receiver. If the hierarchical identity of the receiver's private key belongs to the prefix set of the hierarchical identity in the ciphertext, the receiver can decrypt the ciphertext. A more detailed syntax of HIBE is given as follows.

Definition 2.1 (Hierarchical Identity-Based Encryption, HIBE). An HIBE scheme consists of five algorithms Setup, GenKey, DelegateKey, Encrypt, and Decrypt, which are defined as follows:

Setup(1<sup>λ</sup> ,*Lmax*). The setup algorithm takes as input a security parameter 1<sup>λ</sup> and maximum hierarchical depth *Lmax*. It outputs a master key *MK* and public parameters *PP*.

{5}------------------------------------------------

- **GenKey**( $ID|_k$ , MK, PP). The key generation algorithm takes as input a hierarchical identity  $ID|_k = (I_1, \dots, I_k)$   $\in \mathcal{I}^k$ , the master key MK, and the public parameters PP. It outputs a private key  $SK_{ID|_k}$  for  $ID|_k$ .
- **DelegateKey**( $ID|_k$ ,  $SK_{ID|_{k-1}}$ , PP). The delegation algorithm takes as input a hierarchical identity  $ID|_k$ , a private key  $SK_{ID|_k}$  for  $ID|_{k-1}$ , and the public parameters PP. It outputs a delegated private key  $SK_{ID|_k}$  for  $ID|_k$ .
- **Encrypt**( $ID|_{\ell}, M, PP$ ). The encryption algorithm takes as input a hierarchical identity  $ID|_{\ell} = (I_1, \dots, I_{\ell}) \in \mathcal{I}^{\ell}$ , a message M, and public parameters PP. It outputs a ciphertext  $CT_{ID|_{\ell}}$ .
- **Decrypt**( $CT_{ID|_{\ell}}$ ,  $SK_{ID'|_{k}}$ , PP). The decryption algorithm takes as input a ciphertext  $CT_{ID|_{\ell}}$ , a private key  $SK_{ID'_{k}}$ , and public parameters PP. It outputs a message M or  $\bot$ .

The correctness of HIBE is defined as follows: For all MK, PP generated by  $\mathbf{Setup}(1^{\lambda})$ , all  $ID|_{\ell}$ ,  $ID'|_{k}$ , any  $SK_{ID'|_{k}}$  generated by  $\mathbf{GenKey}(ID'|_{k}, MK, PP)$ , it is required that

• If  $ID'|_k \in \operatorname{Prefix}(ID|_\ell)$ , then  $\operatorname{\mathbf{Decrypt}}(\operatorname{\mathbf{Encrypt}}(ID|_\ell,M,PP),SK_{ID'|_k},PP)=M.$ 

The security model of HIBE is similar to that of IBE except that it additionally considers the delegation of private keys [14]. In the security model, public parameters are given to an attacker, and the attacker can query a private key for an hierarchical identity. In the challenge phase, the attacker submits challenge  $ID^*$ ,  $M_0^*$ , and  $M_1^*$  and receives a challenge ciphertext. At this time, there is a constraint that the hierarchical identities of private keys requested by the attacker do not belong to the prefix set of the challenge  $ID^*$ . After that, the attacker can query additional private keys and finally submits a guess for the challenge ciphertext. The attacker's advantage is the value subtracting 1/2 from the probability of guessing the message. An HIBE scheme is secure if the advantage of all efficient attackers is negligible.

### <span id="page-5-0"></span>2.2 Identity-Based Broadcast Encryption

Identity-based broadcast encryption (IBBE) is an extension of public-key broadcast encryption (PKBE) except that individual users are specified as identity strings rather than indexes and it supports exponential numbers of system users [12]. In IBBE, a trusted center generates a private key for a user's identity. A sender creates a ciphertext by specifying a set of receiver's identities. A receiver can decrypt the ciphertext if his/her identity of the private key belongs to the receiver's set in the ciphertext. A more detailed syntax of IBBE is given as follows.

**Definition 2.2** (Identity-Based Broadcast Encryption, IBBE). An IBBE scheme consists of four algorithms **Setup**, **GenKey**, **Encrypt**, and **Decrypt**, which are defined as follows:

- **Setup** $(1^{\lambda}, n)$ : The setup algorithm takes as input a security parameter  $1^{\lambda}$  and the maximum size n of a broadcast set. It outputs a master key MK and public parameters PP.
- **GenKey**(ID, MK, PP): The private key generation algorithm takes as input an identity  $ID \in \mathcal{I}$ , the master key MK, and public parameters PP. It outputs a private key  $SK_{ID}$ .
- **Encrypt**(S, M, PP): The encryption algorithm takes as input a set  $S \subseteq \mathcal{I}$  of receivers, a message  $M \in \mathcal{M}$ , and public parameters PP. It outputs a ciphertext  $CT_S$ .
- **Decrypt**( $CT_S$ ,  $SK_{ID}$ , PP): The decryption algorithm takes as input a ciphertext  $CT_S$ , a private key  $SK_{ID}$ , and public parameters PP. It outputs a message M or  $\bot$ .

{6}------------------------------------------------

The correctness of IBBE is defined as follows: For all *MK* and *PP* generated by Setup(1 λ ,*n*), *SKID* generated by GenKey(*ID*,*MK*,*PP*) for any *ID*, and any *S* and *M*, it is required that

• If *ID* ∈ *S*, then Decrypt(Encrypt(*S*,*M*,*PP*),*SKID*,*PP*) = *M*.

The security model of IBBE is similar to that of PKBE except that it additionally supports the private key query of an attacker for an identity string [\[12\]](#page-28-10). In the security model, an attacker is given public parameters, and the attacker can query a private key for an arbitrary identity string. In the challenge phase, the attacker submits a challenge set *S* ∗ , challenge messages *M*<sup>∗</sup> 0 , *M*<sup>∗</sup> 1 , and receives a challenge ciphertext. At this time, there is a constraint that the private keys requested by the attacker are not belong to *S* ∗ . After that, the attacker can query additional private keys with the same constraints and finally outputs a guess for the challenge ciphertext. At this time, the advantage of the attacker is defined as the value subtracting 1/2 from the probability of guessing the message. An IBBE scheme is secure if the advantage of all efficient attackers is negligible.

## <span id="page-6-0"></span>2.3 Collision Resistant Hash Function

A hash function family (HF) H is a set of hash functions *H* : X → Y where X is an input domain and Y is an output range. We say that the hash function family H is collision resistant if for all efficient adversaries A, the advantage of A defined as Adv*CR HF*,A(λ) = Pr[*H*(*x*) = *H*(*x* ′ );*H* ← H,(*x*, *x* ′ ) ← A(*H*)] is negligible in the security parameter λ.

# <span id="page-6-1"></span>2.4 Binary Tree

A perfect binary tree BT is a tree data structure in which all internal nodes have two child nodes and all leaf nodes have the same depth. Let *N* = 2 *<sup>n</sup>* be the number of leaf nodes in BT . The number of all nodes in BT is 2*N* −1 and we denote *v<sup>i</sup>* as a node in BT for any 1 ≤ *i* ≤ 2*N* −1. The depth *d<sup>i</sup>* of a node *v<sup>i</sup>* is the length of the path from a root node to the node. The root node of a tree has depth zero. The depth of BT is the length of the path from the root node to a leaf node. A level of BT is a set of all nodes at given depth.

Each node *v<sup>i</sup>* ∈ BT has an identifier *L<sup>i</sup>* ∈ {0,1} <sup>∗</sup> which is a fixed and unique string. An identifier of each node is assigned as follows: Each edge in the tree is assigned with 0 or 1 depending on whether it is connected to the left or right child node. The identifier *L<sup>i</sup>* of a node *v<sup>i</sup>* is obtained by reading all labels of edges in a path from the root node to the node *v<sup>i</sup>* . The root node has an empty identifier ε. For a node *v<sup>i</sup>* , we define Label(*vi*) be the identifier of *v<sup>i</sup>* and Depth(*vi*) be the depth *d<sup>i</sup>* of *v<sup>i</sup>* .

A subtree T*<sup>i</sup>* in BT is defined as a tree that is rooted at a node *v<sup>i</sup>* ∈ BT . A subset *S<sup>i</sup>* is defined as a set of all leaf nodes in T*<sup>i</sup>* . For any two nodes *v<sup>i</sup>* , *v<sup>j</sup>* ∈ BT where *v<sup>j</sup>* is a descendant of *v<sup>i</sup>* , T*i*, *<sup>j</sup>* is defined as a subtree T*<sup>i</sup>* − T*<sup>j</sup>* , that is, all nodes that are descendants of *v<sup>i</sup>* but not *v<sup>j</sup>* . A subset *Si*, *<sup>j</sup>* is defined as a set of leaf nodes in T*i*, *<sup>j</sup>* , that is, *Si*, *<sup>j</sup>* = *S<sup>i</sup>* \ *S<sup>j</sup>* .

For a perfect binary tree BT and a subset *RV* of leaf nodes, *ST*(BT ,*RV*) is defined as the Steiner Tree induced by the set *RV* and the root node, that is, the minimal subtree of BT that connects all the leaf nodes in *RV* and the root node.

#### <span id="page-6-2"></span>2.5 Complete Subtree Method

The complete subtree method (CS) is one of the subset cover methods which are used to design symmetrickey broadcast encryption schemes using binary trees [\[26\]](#page-29-11). In the CS method, the assignment algorithm outputs the path nodes of a leaf node when the leaf node is given as input, and the cover algorithm outputs 

{7}------------------------------------------------

a set of cover nodes that covers all non-revoked leaf nodes when a set of revoked leaf nodes are given as input. The final matching algorithm outputs one node that is common to each other in the path nodes and the cover nodes. A more detailed syntax of the CS method is given as follows:

- CS.Setup(*N*): Let *N* = 2 *n* for simplicity. It first sets a perfect binary tree BT of depth *n*. Each user is assigned to a different leaf node in BT . The collection S is defined as {*Si*} where *S<sup>i</sup>* is a set of all leaves in a subtree T*<sup>i</sup>* with a subroot *v<sup>i</sup>* ∈ BT . It outputs the binary tree BT .
- CS.Assign(BT , *vID*): Let *vID* be a leaf node of BT that is assigned to the user *ID*. Let (*vk*<sup>0</sup> , *vk*<sup>1</sup> ,..., *vk<sup>n</sup>* ) be the path from the root node *vk*<sup>0</sup> = *v*<sup>0</sup> to the leaf node *vk<sup>n</sup>* = *vID*. For all *j* ∈ {*k*0,..., *kn*}, it adds *S<sup>j</sup>* into *PV*. It outputs the private set *PV* = {*Sj*}.
- CS.Cover(BT ,*RV*): It first computes the Steiner tree *ST*(*RV*). Let T*k*<sup>1</sup> ,...T*k<sup>m</sup>* be all the subtrees of BT that hang off *ST*(*RV*), that is all subtrees whose roots *vk*<sup>1</sup> ,... *vk<sup>m</sup>* are not in *ST*(*RV*) but adjacent to nodes of outdegree 1 in *ST*(*RV*). For all *i* ∈ {*k*1,..., *km*}, it adds *S<sup>i</sup>* into *CV*. It outputs a covering set *CV* = {*Si*}.
- CS.Match(*CV*,*PV*): It finds a subset *S<sup>k</sup>* with *S<sup>k</sup>* ∈ *CV* and *S<sup>k</sup>* ∈ *PV*. If there is such a subset, it outputs (*Sk*,*Sk*). Otherwise, it outputs ⊥.

The correctness of the CS method is that if a leaf node is not revoked in the cover nodes, the matching algorithm outputs one common node. In the CS method, the size of the cover nodes is approximately *r*log(*N*/*r*) when the number of revoked users is *r* and the total number of binary tree leaf nodes is *N*.

# <span id="page-7-0"></span>3 Revocable IBE with Delegated Update Keys

In this section, we define the syntax and security model of DRIBE and show that a DRIBE scheme can be generically constructed by combining existing HIBE and IBBE schemes and a hash function.

#### <span id="page-7-1"></span>3.1 Definition

DRIBE is an extension of RIBE that supports user revocation and it can additionally delegate the generation of update keys to a cloud server. In addition, anyone can publicly verify the update key of DRIBE.

In a DRIBE scheme, a trusted center generates two master keys *MSK*, *MUK*, and public parameters *PP*, and sends the master update key *MUK* to a cloud server to delegate the generation of update keys. The trusted center generates the private key of each user by using the master secret key *MSK* and maintains a revocation list *RL* that records the information of revoked users. The cloud server periodically broadcasts an update key for non-revoked users by using the master update key *MUK* and the revocation list *RL*. If a user wants to deliver a message securely to another user, the sender creates a ciphertext by specifying a receiver identity *ID* and time *T*. If the private key of the receiver is not revoked in the update key at the corresponding time, the receiver can decrypt the ciphertext by combining his private key and the update key. In addition, any user can publicly verify the validity of the update key generated by the cloud server.

Definition 3.1 (Delegated Revocable IBE). A delegated revocable IBE (DRIBE) scheme that is associated with identity space I, time space T , and message space M, consists of eight algorithms Setup, GenKey, Revoke, UpdateKey, VerifyUK, DeriveKey, Encrypt, and Decrypt, which are defined as follows:

Setup(1<sup>λ</sup> ): The setup algorithm takes as input a security parameter 1<sup>λ</sup> . It outputs a master secret key *MSK*, a master update key *MUK*, and public parameters *PP*.

{8}------------------------------------------------

- GenKey(*ID*,*MSK*,*PP*): The private key generation algorithm takes as input an identity *ID*, the master secret key *MSK*, and public parameters *PP*. It outputs a private key *SKID*.
- Revoke(*ID*,*T*,*RL*): The revocation algorithm takes as input an identity *ID*, revocation time *T*, a current revocation list *RL*. It outputs an updated revocation list *RL*.
- UpdateKey(*T*,*RL*,*MUK*,*PP*): The update key generation algorithm takes as input update time *T* ∈ T , a revocation list *RL*, the master update key *MUK*, and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs an update key *UK<sup>T</sup>* .
- VerifyUK(*UK*,*T*,*RL*,*PP*): The update key verification generation algorithm takes as input an update key *UK*, update time *T* ∈ T , a revocation list *RL*, and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs 1 or 0 depending on the validity of the update key.
- DeriveKey(*SKID*,*UK<sup>T</sup>* ,*PP*): The decryption key derivation algorithm takes as input a private key *SKID*, an update key *UK<sup>T</sup>* , and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs a decryption key *DKID*,*<sup>T</sup>* or ⊥.
- Encrypt(*ID*,*T*,*M*,*PP*): The encryption algorithm takes as input an identity *ID*, time *T*, a message *M* ∈M, and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs a ciphertext *CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* .
- Decrypt(*CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* ,*DKID*′ ,*T* ′,*PP*): The decryption algorithm takes as input a ciphertext *CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* , a decryption key *DKID*′ ,*T* ′ , and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs a message *M* or ⊥.

The correctness of DRIBE is defined as follows: For all *MSK*, *MUK*, and *PP* generated by Setup(1 λ ), *SKID* generated by GenKey(*ID*,*MSK*,*PP*) for any *ID*, *UK<sup>T</sup>* generated by UpdateKey(*T*,*RL*,*MUK*,*PP*) for any *T* and *RL*, *CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* generated by Encrypt(*ID*,*T*,*M*,*PP*) for any *ID*, *T*, and *M*, it is required that

- If (*ID*,*T* ′′) ̸∈ *RL* for all *T* ′′ ≤ *T*, then DeriveKey(*SKID*,*UK<sup>T</sup>* ,*PP*) = *DKID*,*<sup>T</sup>* .
- If (*ID* = *ID*′ )∧(*T* = *T* ′ ), then Decrypt(*CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* ,*DKID*′ ,*T* ′,*PP*) = *M*.
- VerifyUK(*UK<sup>T</sup>* ,*T*,*RL*,*PP*) = 1.

The IND-CPA security model of DRIBE is a modification of the IND-CPA security model of RIBE [\[3,](#page-28-0) [31\]](#page-30-0) to consider that all update keys are generated by a *semi-trusted* cloud server. A semi-trusted cloud server follows the protocol but is curious and attempts to obtain extra information from the protocol. In this security model, an attacker can request private key, revocation, update key, and decryption key queries. The private key, revocation, and decryption key queries are handled by a challenger, but the update key queries are handled by a semi-trusted cloud server. Note that there is no direct communication between the cloud server and the attacker. The important restriction of this model is that if the attacker requested a private key for the challenge identity *ID*<sup>∗</sup> , the private key corresponding to *ID*<sup>∗</sup> should be revoked at the update key of the challenge time *T* ∗ . The goal of the attacker is to distinguish challenge messages when the challenge ciphertext corresponding to *ID*<sup>∗</sup> and *T* ∗ is given. A more detailed definition of this IND-CPA security model is described as follows.

Definition 3.2 (IND-CPA Security). The indistinguishability under chosen-plaintext attack (IND-CPA) security of DRIBE is defined as the following experiment between a challenger C, a semi-trusted cloud server S*C*, and an adversary A:

{9}------------------------------------------------

- 1. **Setup**: C generates a master secret key MSK, a master update key MUK, and public parameters PP by running **Setup**( $1^{\lambda}$ ). It initialize a revocation list  $RL = \emptyset$ . It keeps MSK to itself, and gives MUK, PP to  $A_C$  and PP to A.
- 2. **Phase 1**: A adaptively request a polynomial number of queries. C handles these queries as follows:
  - Private key: If this is a private key query for an identity ID, then it creates a private key  $SK_{ID}$  by running **GenKey**(ID, MSK, PP) and gives  $SK_{ID}$  to A.
  - Revocation: If this is a revocation query for an identity ID and time T, then it updates RL by running  $\mathbf{Revoke}(ID, T, RL)$ .
  - Update key: If this is an update key query on time T, then it obtains an update key  $UK_T$  from the cloud server  $S_C$  by providing time T and the revocation list RL. Next, it gives  $UK_T$  to A if  $VerifyUK(UK_T, T, RL, PP) = 1$ .
  - Decryption key: If this is a decryption key query for an identity ID and time T, then it creates a decryption key  $DK_{ID,T}$  by running **DeriveKey** $(SK_{ID}, UK_T, PP)$  and gives  $DK_{ID,T}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

Note that we assume that revocation, update key, and decryption key queries are requested in non-decreasing order of time.

- 3. **Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$  with equal length. Next,  $\mathcal{C}$  flips a random coin  $\mu \in \{0,1\}$  and gives the challenge ciphertext  $CT^*$  to  $\mathcal{A}$  by running  $\mathbf{Encrypt}(ID^*, T^*, M_{\mu}^*, PP)$ .
- 4. Phase 2: A may continue to request additional queries subject to the same restrictions as before.
- 5. **Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ , and wins the game if  $\mu = \mu'$ .

The queries of the adversary in the above experiment should satisfy the following conditions:

- 1. If a private key query for  $ID^*$  was requested, then a revocation query for  $ID^*$  and T such that  $T \leq T^*$  should be requested.
- 2. A revocation query on T cannot be queried if an update key query on T was already requested.
- 3. A decryption key query on T cannot be requested before an update key query on T was requested.
- 4. A decryption key query for  $ID^*$  and  $T^*$  was not requested.

The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  is defined as  $\mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE,\mathcal{A}}^{IND\text{-}CPA}(\lambda) = \left|\Pr[\mu = \mu'] - \frac{1}{2}\right|$  where the probability is taken over all the randomness of the experiment. A DRIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure when a cloud server is semi-trusted if for all probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  and all PPT cloud server  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathcal{C}}$ , the advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  in the above experiment is negligible in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

*Remark* 1. If a cloud server is trusted in the above IND-CPA security model of DRIBE, then it is the same as the IND-CPA security model of RIBE since all update keys are generated by a trusted center.

The IND-UKA is a security model that considers the case where a semi-trusted cloud server who can access to the master update key MUK becomes an attacker. In this security model, an attacker corresponding to the cloud server can request private key, revocation, and decryption key queries. Since the attacker can issue an arbitrary update key by using MUK, there is a restriction that the attacker cannot query a private

{10}------------------------------------------------

key corresponding to the challenge identity  $ID^*$  in order to prevent a simple attack. The goal of the attacker is to distinguish challenge messages when the challenge ciphertext of  $ID^*$  and  $T^*$  is given. A more detailed definition of the IND-UKA security is described as follows.

**Definition 3.3** (IND-UKA Security). The indistinguishability under update-key attack (IND-UKA) security of DRIBE is defined in terms of the following experiment between a challenger C and an adversary A:

- 1. **Setup**:  $\mathcal{C}$  generates a master secret key MSK, a master update key MUK, and public parameters PP by running **Setup**( $1^{\lambda}$ ). It initialize a revocation list  $RL = \emptyset$ . It keeps MSK to itself and gives MUK, PP to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- 2. **Phase 1**: A adaptively request a polynomial number of queries. C handles these queries as follows:
  - Private key: If this is a private key query for an identity ID, then it creates a private key  $SK_{ID}$  by running GenKey(ID, MSK, PP) and gives  $SK_{ID}$  to A
  - Revocation: If this is a revocation query for an identity ID and time T, then it updates RL by running  $\mathbf{Revoke}(ID, T, RL)$ .
  - Decryption key: If this is a decryption key query for an identity ID and time T, then it takes an input  $UK_T$  from A and creates a decryption key  $DK_{ID,T}$  by running **DeriveKey** $(SK_{ID}, UK_T, PP)$  and gives  $DK_{ID,T}$  to A.

Note that we assume that revocation and decryption key queries are requested in non-decreasing order of time.

- 3. **Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$  with equal length. Next,  $\mathcal{C}$  flips a random coin  $\mu \in \{0,1\}$  and gives the challenge ciphertext  $CT^*$  to  $\mathcal{A}$  by running  $\mathbf{Encrypt}(ID^*, T^*, M_{\mu}^*, PP)$ .
- 4. Phase 2: A may continue to request additional queries subject to the same restrictions as before.
- 5. **Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ , and wins the game if  $\mu = \mu'$ .

The queries of the adversary in the above experiment should satisfy the following conditions:

- 1. A private key query for  $ID^*$  was not requested.
- 2. A decryption key query for  $ID^*$  and  $T^*$  was not requested.

The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  is defined as  $\mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE,\mathcal{A}}^{IND\text{-}UKA}(\lambda) = \left|\Pr[\mu = \mu'] - \frac{1}{2}\right|$  where the probability is taken over all the randomness of the experiment. A DRIBE scheme is IND-UKA secure if for all PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , the advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  in the above experiment is negligible in the security parameter  $\lambda$ .

### <span id="page-10-0"></span>3.2 Design Principle

Most of previous RIBE schemes using a binary tree can efficiently process user revocation because the path of the binary tree is associated with a private key and the cover of the binary tree is associated with an update key [3, 21, 24, 31]. However, since these RIBE schemes use a secret sharing scheme to share a master secret key for each node of the binary tree, the private key generation algorithm and the update key generation algorithm require the same state information. For this reason, these RIBE schemes have a problem in that it is difficult to separate the private key generation process and the update key generation

{11}------------------------------------------------

process independently, and thus it is difficult to delegate the update key generation to an external semitrusted cloud server. In addition, in the previous RIBE schemes, it is impossible for a user to publicly verify that the update key has been properly generated without the status information used to generate the update key.

In order to design a DRIBE scheme that can delegate the update key generation, we pay attention to the RIBE scheme proposed by Ma and Lin [\[25\]](#page-29-6). In terms of using a binary tree, the ML-RIBE scheme is also similar to the previous RIBE schemes using a binary tree. However, in the previous RIBE schemes, the path of the binary tree is related to a private key, but the ML-RIBE scheme has a big difference in that the path of the binary tree is related to a ciphertext. In order to clearly separate the underlying cryptographic primitives used for private key generation and update key generation, we use the ML-RIBE scheme that provides the decryption key exposure resistance (DKER) property by combining a two-level HIBE scheme and an IBBE scheme. In this case, the private key generation is processed by the master key of the HIBE scheme, and the update key generation is processed by generating key elements for each cover nodes of the binary tree by using the master key of the IBBE scheme. To provide the public verification of update keys, we perform verification using the IBBE encryption process using the fact that the update key elements of the ML-RIBE scheme are all composed of the private keys of the IBBE scheme.

## <span id="page-11-0"></span>3.3 Construction

A generic DRIBE scheme that uses HIBE, IBBE, and CRHF schemes is described as follows:

DRIBE.Setup(1 λ ): Let I = {0,1} *<sup>n</sup>* be the identity space.

- 1. It first obtains *MKHIBE*,*PPHIBE* by running HIBE.Setup(1 λ ,2) and obtains *MKIBBE*,*PPIBBE* by running IBBE.Setup(1 λ ,*n*). It also selects a collision resistant hash function *H* ∈ H.
- 2. It defines a binary tree BT by running CS.Setup(2 *n* ) where an identity *ID* is uniquely assigned to a leaf node *v* such that Label(*v*) = *ID*.
- 3. It outputs a master secret key *MSK* = *MKHIBE*, a master update key *MUK* = *MKIBBE*, and public parameters *PP* = (*PPHIBE*,*PPIBBE*,*H*,BT ).
- DRIBE.GenKey(*ID*,*MSK*,*PP*): It obtains *SKHIBE* by running HIBE.GenKey(*ID*,*MKHIBE*,*PPHIBE*). It outputs a private key *SKID* = *SKHIBE*.
- DRIBE.Revoke(*ID*,*T*,*RL*): If (*ID*,∗) already exists in *RL*, it outputs *RL*. Otherwise, it adds (*ID*,*T*) to *RL* and outputs the updated *RL*.
- DRIBE.UpdateKey(*T*,*RL*,*MUK*,*PP*): To generate an update key for *T*, it proceeds as follows:
  - 1. It initializes *RV* = /0. For each (*ID<sup>j</sup>* ,*Tj*) ∈ *RL*, it adds a leaf node *v<sup>j</sup>* ∈ BT which is associated with *ID<sup>j</sup>* into *RV* if *T<sup>j</sup>* ≤ *T*. It obtains *CV<sup>T</sup>* by running CS.Cover(BT ,*RV*).
  - 2. For each *S<sup>i</sup>* ∈*CV<sup>T</sup>* , it obtains *SKIBBE*,*S<sup>i</sup>* by running IBBE.GenKey(*H*(Label(*Si*)∥*T*),*MKIBBE*,*PPIBBE*).
  - 3. It outputs an update key *UK<sup>T</sup>* = *CV<sup>T</sup>* ,{*SKIBBE*,*S<sup>i</sup>* }*Si*∈*CV<sup>T</sup>* .
- DRIBE.VerifyUK(*UK*,*T*,*RL*,*PP*): Let *UK<sup>T</sup>* = (*CV<sup>T</sup>* ,{*SKIBBE*,*S<sup>i</sup>* }). To verify an update key for *T* and *RL*, it proceeds as follows:

{12}------------------------------------------------

- 1. It initializes  $RV = \emptyset$ . For each  $(ID_j, T_j) \in RL$ , it adds a leaf node  $v_j \in \mathcal{BT}$  which is associated with  $ID_j$  into RV if  $T_j \leq T$ . It obtains CV' by running  $\mathbf{CS.Cover}(\mathcal{BT}, RV)$  and checks that  $CV' = CV_T$ .
- 2. It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in CV_T$ , it adds a string  $H(\text{Label}(S_i)||T)$  to S. It chooses a random  $M \in \mathcal{M}$  and obtains  $CT_{IBBE}$  by running **IBBE.Encrypt** $(S, M, PP_{IBBE})$ .
- 3. For each  $S_i \in CV_T$ , it performs the followings:
  - (a) It retrieves  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$  from  $UK_T$  and obtains M' by running **IBBE.Decrypt**( $CT_{IBBE}$ ,  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$ ,  $PP_{IBBE}$ ).
  - (b) If  $M' \neq M$ , then it outputs 0 since UK is invalid.
- 4. Finally, it outputs 1 since UK is valid.

**DRIBE.DeriveKey**( $SK_{ID}$ ,  $UK_T$ , PP): Let  $SK_{ID} = SK_{HIBE}$ . To derive a decryption key for ID and T, it proceeds as follows:

- 1. It obtains  $PV_{ID}$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v_{ID})$  where  $v_{ID}$  is a leaf node such that  $ID = \mathrm{Label}(v_{ID})$ . If  $PV_{ID} \cap CV_T = \emptyset$ , then it outputs  $\perp$  since ID was revoked in  $UK_T$ .
- 2. It obtains  $DK_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.DelegateKey**( $SK_{HIBE}$ , T,  $PP_{HIBE}$ ).
- 3. Finally, it outputs a decryption key  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{HIBE}, UK_T)$ .

**DRIBE.Encrypt**(ID, T, M, PP): To generate a ciphertext for ID and T, it proceeds as follows:

- 1. It selects random  $M_1 \in \mathcal{M}$  and sets  $M_2 = M \oplus M_1$ . It obtains  $CT_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.Encrypt**  $((ID, T), M_1, PP_{HIBE})$ .
- 2. Let  $v_{ID}$  be a leaf node associated with ID such that  $ID = \text{Label}(v_{ID})$ . It obtains  $PV_{ID}$  by running CS.Assign $(\mathcal{BT}, v_{ID})$ .
- 3. It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV_{ID}$ , it adds a string  $H(\text{Label}(S_i)||T)$  to S. It obtains  $CT_{IBBE}$  by running **IBBE.Encrypt** $(S, M_2, PP_{IBBE})$ .
- 4. Finally, it outputs a ciphertext  $CT_{ID,T} = (CT_{HIBE}, CT_{IBBE})$  by implicitly including ID and T.

**DRIBE.Decrypt**( $CT_{ID,T}$ ,  $DK_{ID',T'}$ , PP): Let  $CT_{ID,T} = (CT_{HIBE}, CT_{IBBE})$  and  $DK_{ID',T'} = (DK_{HIBE}, UK_T = (CV_T, \{SK_{IBBE}, S_i\}))$ . It proceeds as follows:

- 1. It first obtains  $M_1$  by running **HIBE.Decrypt**( $CT_{HIBE}$ ,  $DK_{HIBE}$ ,  $PP_{HIBE}$ ).
- 2. It obtains  $PV_{ID}$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v_{ID})$  where  $v_{ID}$  is a leaf node such that  $\mathsf{Label}(v_{ID}) = ID$ .
- 3. It finds  $(S_i, S_i)$  by running **CS.Match** $(CV_T, PV_{ID})$ . If it fails to find, it returns  $\perp$ .
- 4. It retrieves  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$  from  $UK_T$  and obtains  $M_2$  by running **IBBE.Decrypt**( $CT_{IBBE}, SK_{IBBE,S_i}, PP_{IBBE}$ ).
- 5. Finally, it outputs a message  $M = M_1 \oplus M_2$ .

#### <span id="page-12-0"></span>3.4 Correctness

In this section we show the correctness of the DRIBE scheme. The ciphertext of our DRIBE scheme consists of two elements: an HIBE ciphertext and an IBBE ciphertext. First, if the identity ID and time T of the HIBE ciphertext and the identity ID and time T of the HIBE private key are the same, we can decrypt  $M_1$  by the

{13}------------------------------------------------

correctness of the HIBE scheme. From the correctness of the CS method, a common node v in a binary tree exists if the path of the binary tree associated with ID is not revoked in the cover of the binary tree. The IBBE ciphertext sets all nodes in the path as a set of recipients, and the update key consists of the IBBE private keys associated with the cover nodes of the binary tree. Because of this, the common node v becomes an element of the path node set, and  $M_2$  is decrypted by the correctness of the IBBE scheme. Therefore, we can derive the correct message with the operation  $M = M_1 \oplus M_2$ .

The update key of our DRIBE scheme is composed of IBBE private keys for cover nodes related to leaf nodes excluding all revoked identities obtained from the revocation list *RL*. Therefore, if an IBBE ciphertext for these cover nodes as recipients are generated and this IBBE ciphertext is decrypted for each IBBE private key to verify that the correct message is decrypted, then the update key is verified correctly by the correctness of the IBBE scheme.

### <span id="page-13-0"></span>3.5 Security Analysis

In this section, we show that our DRIBE scheme provides the IND-CPA security when a cloud server is semi-trusted and the IND-UKA security by relying on the security of underlying cryptographic primitives.

**Theorem 3.1.** The above DRIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure if the underlying HIBE and IBBE schemes are IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Let  $ID^*$  be the challenge identity and  $T^*$  be the challenge time. We divide the behavior of an adversary as two types: Type-A and Type-B, which are defined as follows:

**Type-A.** An adversary is type-A if it requests a private key on an identity ID such that  $ID \neq ID^*$  for all private key queries.

**Type-B.** An adversary is type-B if it requests a private key on an identity ID such that  $ID = ID^*$  for some private key query. In this case, the identity  $ID^*$  should be revoked on time T such that  $T \le T^*$  by the restriction of the security model.

Let  $E_i$  be the event that A behaves like type-i adversary. From Lemmas 3.2 and 3.3, we obtain the following result

$$\mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE,\mathcal{A}}^{IND\text{-}CPA}(\lambda) \leq \Pr[E_A] \cdot \mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE,\mathcal{A}}^{IND\text{-}CPA}(\lambda) + \Pr[E_B] \cdot \mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE,\mathcal{A}}^{IND\text{-}CPA}(\lambda)$$
$$\leq \mathbf{Adv}_{HIBE,\mathcal{B}}^{IND\text{-}CPA}(\lambda) + \mathbf{Adv}_{IBBE,\mathcal{B}}^{IND\text{-}CPA}(\lambda).$$

This completes our proof.

<span id="page-13-1"></span>**Lemma 3.2.** For the type-A adversary, the DRIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure if the HIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Suppose there exists a type-A adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that attacks the DRIBE scheme with a non-negligible advantage. An algorithm  $\mathcal{B}$  that attacks the HIBE scheme is initially given public parameters  $PP_{HIBE}$  by a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  that interacts with  $\mathcal{A}$  is described as follows:

**Setup:**  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $MK_{IBBE}$ ,  $PP_{IBBE}$  by running the setup algorithm of IBBE. It initializes  $RL = \emptyset$  and gives  $PP = (PP_{HIBE}, PP_{IBBE}, H, \mathcal{BT})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Phase 1:** A adaptively requests a polynomial number of queries. B handles these queries as follows:

{14}------------------------------------------------

- For a private key query on ID,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It receives  $SK_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key for ID. It gives  $SK_{ID} = SK_{HIBE}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a revocation query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  updates RL by running the revocation algorithm of DRIBE.
- For an update key query on T,  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $UK_T$  by using RL and  $MK_{IBBE}$  and gives  $UK_T$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a decryption key query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It receives  $DK_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key for ID and T. It generates  $UK_T$  by using  $MK_{IBBE}$ . It gives  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{HIBE}, UK_T)$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:

- 1. It first select a random  $M_2 \in \mathcal{M}$  and sets  $M_{1,0} = M_0^* \oplus M_2, M_{1,1} = M_1^* \oplus M_2$ .
- 2. Next, it receives  $CT^*_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by submitting  $ID^*$ ,  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_{1,0}, M_{1,1}$ .
- 3. It obtains  $PV^*$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v^*)$  where a leaf node  $v^*$  is associated with  $ID^*$ . It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV^*$ , it adds  $H(\mathsf{Label}(S_i) || T^*)$  to S. It generates  $CT^*_{IBBE}$  by running  $\mathbf{DRIBE.Encrypt}(S, M_2, PP_{IBBE})$ .
- 4. It gives a challenge ciphertext  $CT^* = (CT^*_{HIBE}, CT^*_{IBBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

#### Phase 2: Same as Phase 1.

**Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also outputs  $\mu'$ .

In order to analyze the correctness of the simulation described above, we show that it is possible to process the private key and decryption key query of the DRIBE scheme by using the private key query of the HIBE scheme. The type-A attacker requests the DRIBE private key query with the restriction that  $ID \neq ID^*$ , so the DRIBE private key query can be handled by using the HIBE private key query. In the constraints of the DRIBE security model, the attacker can query the DRIBE decryption key with the restriction that  $ID \neq ID^*$  or  $ID = ID^* \land T \neq T^*$ , so the DRIBE decryption key query also can be handled by using the HIBE private key query. The challenge message selected by the attacker in the challenge phase is linked to the HIBE challenge message, so the DRIBE challenge ciphertext is linked to the HIBE challenge ciphertext. Thus the probability of distinguishing the HIBE challenge ciphertext becomes the same as the probability of distinguishing the DRIBE challenge ciphertext.

<span id="page-14-0"></span>**Lemma 3.3.** For the type-B adversary, the DRIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure if the IBBE scheme is IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Suppose there exists a type-B adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that attacks the DRIBE scheme with a non-negligible advantage. An algorithm  $\mathcal{B}$  that attacks the IBBE scheme is initially given public parameters  $PP_{IBBE}$  by a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  that interacts with  $\mathcal{A}$  is described as follows:

**Setup:**  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $MK_{HIBE}$ ,  $PP_{HIBE}$  by running the setup algorithm of HIBE. It initializes  $RL = \emptyset$  and gives  $PP = (PP_{HIBE}, PP_{IBBE}, H, \mathcal{BT})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Phase 1:** A adaptively requests a polynomial number of private key, revocation, update key, and decryption key queries.

• For a private key query on ID,  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $SK_{ID}$  by using  $MK_{HIBE}$  and gives  $SK_{ID}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

{15}------------------------------------------------

- For a revocation query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  updates RL by running the revocation algorithm of DRIBE.
- For an update key query on T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:
  - 1. It initializes  $RV = \emptyset$ . For each  $(ID_j, T_j) \in RL$ , it adds a leaf node  $v_j \in \mathcal{BT}$  into RV if  $T_j \leq T$ . It obtains  $CV_T$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Cover}(\mathcal{BT}, RV)$ .
  - 2. For each  $S_i \in CV_T$ , it receives  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$  from C by querying a private key for  $H(Label(S_i)||T)$ .
  - 3. It creates  $UK_T = (CV_T, \{SK_{IBBE,S_i}\}_{S_i \in CV_T})$  and gives  $UK_T$  to A.
- For a decryption key query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $DK_{HIBE}$  for ID and T by using  $MK_{HIBE}$ . It receives  $UK_T$  by querying an update key to its own oracle. It gives  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{HIBE}, UK_T)$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:

- 1. It first selects a random  $M_1 \in \mathcal{M}$  and sets  $M_{2,0} = M_0^* \oplus M_1, M_{2,1} = M_1^* \oplus M_1$ . It generates  $CT^*_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.Encrypt** $(ID^*, T^*), M_1, PP_{HIBE}$ ).
- 2. It obtains  $PV^*$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v^*)$  where a leaf node  $v^*$  is associated with  $ID^*$ . It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV^*$ , it adds  $H(\mathsf{Label}(S_i) || T^*)$  to S.
- 3. It receives  $CT^*_{IBBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by submitting a challenge set S and challenge messages  $M_{2,0}, M_{2,1}$ .
- 4. It gives a challenge ciphertext  $CT^* = (CT^*_{HIBE}, CT^*_{IBBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

Phase 2: Same as Phase 1.

**Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also outputs  $\mu'$ .

In order to analyze whether the simulation described above is correct, we show that it is possible to process the update key and decryption key queries of the DRIBE scheme by using the private key queries of the IBBE scheme. From the restriction of a type-B attacker, we have that a private key for  $ID^*$  is revoked in an update key at time  $T^*$  if the attacker requested a private key for  $ID^*$ . When generating the update key of the DRIBE scheme, the string  $H(S_i||T)$  is used as the identity of the IBBE scheme. Thus, the update key at time  $T \neq T^*$  can be created by generating IBBE private keys using the fact that  $H(S_i||T) \neq H(S_i||T^*)$  since  $T \neq T^*$ . The update key at time  $T = T^*$  also can be created by generating IBBE private keys using the fact that  $H(S_i||T^*) \neq H(S_i^*||T^*)$  because the path nodes of  $ID^*$  are all removed from the cover nodes at time  $T^*$ . The decryption key query can also be easily handled by using the update key query in the simulation. Finally, in the challenge phase, the attacker's challenge message is linked to the IBBE challenge message, so the DRIBE challenge ciphertext is linked to the IBBE challenge ciphertext.

**Theorem 3.4.** The above DRIBE scheme is IND-UKA secure if the underlying HIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Suppose there exists an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that attacks the DRIBE scheme with a non-negligible advantage. An algorithm  $\mathcal{B}$  that attacks the HIBE scheme is initially given public parameters  $PP_{HIBE}$  by a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  that interacts with  $\mathcal{A}$  is described as follows:

**Setup:**  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $MK_{IBBE}$ ,  $PP_{IBBE}$  by running the setup algorithm of IBBE. It initializes  $RL = \emptyset$  and gives  $MUK = MK_{IBBE}$ ,  $PP = (PP_{HIBE}, PP_{IBBE}, H, \mathcal{BT})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Phase 1:** A adaptively requests a polynomial number of private key, revocation, and decryption key queries.

{16}------------------------------------------------

- For a private key query on ID,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It receives  $SK_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key for ID. It gives  $SK_{ID} = SK_{HIBE}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a revocation query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  updates RL by running the revocation algorithm of DRIBE.
- For a decryption key query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It receives  $DK_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key for ID and T. Next, it generates  $UK_T$  by using  $MK_{IBBE}$ . It gives  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{HIBE}, UK_T)$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:

- 1. It first select a random  $M_2 \in \mathcal{M}$  and sets  $M_{1,0} = M_0^* \oplus M_2, M_{1,1} = M_1^* \oplus M_2$ .
- 2. Next, it receives  $CT^*_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by submitting  $ID^*$ ,  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_{1,0}, M_{1,1}$ .
- 3. It obtains  $PV^*$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v^*)$  where a leaf node  $v^*$  is associated with  $ID^*$ . It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV^*$ , it adds  $H(\mathsf{Label}(S_i) || T^*)$  to S. It generates  $CT^*_{IBBE}$  by running  $\mathbf{DRIBE.Encrypt}(S, M_2, PP_{IBBE})$ .
- 4. It gives a challenge ciphertext  $CT^* = (CT^*_{HIBE}, CT^*_{IBBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

Phase 2: Same as Phase 1.

**Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also outputs  $\mu'$ .

The restrictions of the attacker in the IND-UKA security model are the same as those of the type-A attacker in the Lemma 3.2. Thus the correctness of this simulation is the same as that of the simulation in Lemma 3.2.  $\Box$ 

#### <span id="page-16-0"></span>3.6 Discussions

Efficiency Analysis. The public parameters of the DRIBE scheme consist of HIBE and IBE public parameters. In addition, the public parameters require binary tree information to be used in the DRIBE scheme, and the binary tree has a depth of  $2\lambda$  where  $\lambda$  is the security parameter. The DRIBE private key is compact since it composed of one HIBE private key. The DRIBE update key is related to the number of cover nodes in the binary tree. If the number of revoked users is r, then the size of the cover nodes is  $r \log(2^{2\lambda}/r)$ . Thus the update key consists of approximately  $2r\lambda$  IBBE private keys. The DRIBE ciphertext is compact because it consists of one HIBE ciphertext and one IBBE ciphertext. The DRIBE encryption algorithm performs one HIBE encryption and one IBBE encryption, and the decryption algorithm requires one HIBE decryption and one IBBE decryption. Since the DRIBE update key verification algorithm needs to check all IBBE private keys in the update key, it requires one IBBE encryption and  $2r\lambda$  IBBE decryption operations.

**Server-Aided Decryption**. In order to improve the decryption performance of an RIBE scheme, a server-aided RIBE scheme, in which a cloud server processes part of the decryption operation, was proposed [28]. Our DRIBE scheme naturally supports the server-aided decryption functionality. That is, a decrypter first sends the IBBE ciphertext of a DRIBE ciphertext and the DRIBE update key of a DRIBE decryption key to a cloud server. Then, the cloud server obtains a partial message  $M_2$  by decrypting the IBBE ciphertext using an IBBE private key which is associated to the matching node of a binary tree, and returns it to the decrypter. Note that the cloud server cannot obtain any information about the original message since  $M_2$  was selected as a random value. After that, the decrypter decrypts the HIBE ciphertext to obtain  $M_1$ , and

{17}------------------------------------------------

combines *M*<sup>1</sup> with *M*<sup>2</sup> to derive the original message. The decryption process of the decrypter is efficient since the decrypter needs only one HIBE decryption operation.

Reducing the Update Key Size. In our DRIBE scheme, the path of a binary tree is associated with a receiver's identity. Thus the depth of the binary tree should be set to be proportional to the length of an identity, and the depth should be the output length of a hash function if an arbitrary long string is used for the identity. That is, when the security parameter of the system is λ, the depth of the binary tree should be 2λ. Since the binary tree is also involved in the generation of an update key, the size of the update key is *r*log(2 <sup>2</sup><sup>λ</sup> /*r*) where *r* is the number of revoked users. The problem of our DRIBE scheme is that the depth of the binary tree should be 2λ, whereas the depth of the previous RIBE schemes is just log*N* where *N* is the number of system users. Specifically, if we set λ = 80 and *N* = 2 <sup>30</sup>, then the update key size of the previous RIBE schemes is approximately *r* ∗ 30, but the update key size of our DRIBE scheme is *r* ∗ 160. Thus the update key of the DRIBE scheme is 5 times larger than that of the previous RIBE schemes. To reduce the update key size, we propose a DRIBE-INC scheme in the next section that generates an incremental update key for revoked users in a short period of time.

# <span id="page-17-0"></span>4 Delegated RIBE with Incremental Update Keys

In this section, we define the syntax and security model of DRIBE-INC that supports the generation of incremental update keys. We next propose a DRIBE-INC scheme by generically combining DRIBE, HIBE, IBBE schemes and a hash function, and prove the security of our construction.

# <span id="page-17-1"></span>4.1 Definition

A DRIBE-INC scheme is similar to a DRIBE scheme that delegate the generation of update keys to an external cloud server except that it additionally supports the generation of incremental update keys. To support incremental update, the DRIBE-INC scheme separates an update key into a base update key and an incremental update key. If we let *T<sup>s</sup>* be an interval period for generating the base update key, a time period *T* is expressed as *T* = *T<sup>b</sup>* + *T<sup>c</sup>* where *T<sup>c</sup>* = *T* mod *T<sup>s</sup>* . The cloud server generates a base update key that includes all users who were not revoked before the time *T<sup>b</sup>* if *T* = *Tb*, and generates an incremental update key that includes all users that were not revoked between time *T<sup>b</sup>* and time *T* if *T* ̸= *Tb*. Similar to the DRIBE scheme, a sender creates a ciphertext for an identity *ID* and time *T* and delivers the ciphertext to a receiver. The receiver can decrypt the ciphertext if *ID* is not revoked in both the base update key of *T<sup>b</sup>* and the incremental update key of *T*. The detailed syntax of DRIBE-INC is defined as follows.

Definition 4.1 (Incremental Delegated RIBE). An incremental DRIBE (DRIBE-INC) scheme that is associated with identity space I, time space T , and message space M, consists of eight algorithms Setup, GenKey, UpdateKey, IncUpdateKey, DeriveKey, Encrypt, Decrypt, and Revoke, which are defined as follows:

- Setup(1<sup>λ</sup> ): The setup algorithm takes as input a security parameter 1<sup>λ</sup> . It outputs a master key *MSK*, a master update key *MUK*, and public parameters *PP*.
- GenKey(*ID*,*MSK*,*PP*): The private key generation algorithm takes as input an identity *ID*, the master key *MK* and public parameters *PP*. It outputs a private key *SKID*.
- Revoke(*ID*,*T*,*RL*): The revocation algorithm takes as input an identity *ID* and revocation time *T*, a revocation list *RL*. It outputs an updated revocation list *RL*.

{18}------------------------------------------------

- UpdateKey(*Tb*,*RL*,*MUK*,*PP*): The base update key generation algorithm takes as input base update time *T<sup>b</sup>* ∈ T , a revocation list *RL*, the master update key *MUK*, and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs a base update key *BUKT<sup>b</sup>* for a base time *Tb*.
- IncUpdateKey(*T*,*RL*,*MUK*,*PP*): The incremental update key generation algorithm takes as input update time *T* ∈ T , a revocation list *RL*, the master update key *MUK*, and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs an incremental update key *IUK<sup>T</sup>* .
- VerifyBUK(*BUK*,*Tb*,*RL*,*PP*): The base update key verification algorithm takes as input a base update key *BUK*, base time *T<sup>b</sup>* ∈ T , a revocation list *RL*, and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs 1 or 0 depending on the validity of the base update key.
- VerifyIUK(*IUK*,*T*,*RL*,*PP*): The incremental update key verification algorithm takes as input an incremental update key *IUK*, update time *T* ∈ T , a revocation list *RL*, and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs 1 or 0 depending on the validity of the incremental update key.
- DeriveKey(*SKID*,*BUKT<sup>b</sup>* ,*IUK<sup>T</sup>* ,*PP*): The decryption key derivation algorithm takes as input a private key *SKID*, a base update key *BUKT<sup>b</sup>* , an incremental update key *IUK<sup>T</sup>* , and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs a decryption key *DKID*,*<sup>T</sup>* or ⊥.
- Encrypt(*ID*,*T*,*M*,*PP*): The encryption algorithm takes as input an identity *ID*, time *T*, a message *M* ∈M, and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs a ciphertext *CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* .
- Decrypt(*CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* ,*DKID*′ ,*T* ′,*PP*): The decryption algorithm takes as input a ciphertext *CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* , a decryption key *DKID*′ ,*T* ′ , and the public parameters *PP*. It outputs a message *M* or ⊥.

The correctness of DRIBE-INC is defined as follows: For all *MSK*, *MUK*, and *PP* generated by Setup(1 λ ), *SKID* generated by GenKey(*ID*,*MSK*,*PP*) for any *ID*, *BUKT<sup>b</sup>* and *IUK<sup>T</sup>* generated by UpdateKey(*Tb*,*RL*, *MUK*,*PP*) and IncUpdateKey(*T*,*RL*,*MUK*,*PP*) respectively for any *T* = *T<sup>b</sup>* +*T<sup>c</sup>* and *RL*, *CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* generated by Encrypt(*ID*,*T*,*M*,*PP*) for any *ID*, *T*, and *M*, it is required that

- If (*ID*,*T* ′ ) ̸∈ *RL* for all *T* ′ ≤ *T*, then DeriveKey(*SKID*,*BUKT<sup>b</sup>* ,*IUK<sup>T</sup>* ,*PP*) = *DKID*,*<sup>T</sup>* .
- If (*ID* = *ID*′ )∧(*T* = *T* ′ ), then Decrypt(*CTID*,*<sup>T</sup>* ,*DKID*′ ,*T* ′,*PP*) = *M*.
- VerifyBUK(*BUKT<sup>b</sup>* ,*Tb*,*RL*,*PP*) = 1.
- VerifyIUK(*IUK<sup>T</sup>* ,*T*,*RL*,*PP*) = 1.

The security models of DRIBE-INC are similar to those of DRIBE, which are the IND-CPA security model that defines the message hiding against external attackers and the IND-UKA security model that defines the message hiding against external cloud severs. The only change in the security models is that an update key is divided into a base update key and an incremental update key. For definitions of security models, please refer to the security definitions of DRIBE in Section [3.1.](#page-7-1)

### <span id="page-18-0"></span>4.2 Construction

To design a DRIBE-INC scheme, we express time *T* as *T* = *Tb*+*T<sup>c</sup>* where *T<sup>c</sup>* ≡ *T* mod *T<sup>s</sup>* . If *T* ≡ 0 mod *T<sup>s</sup>* , we use the DRIBE scheme to generate a base update key for non-revoked users before time *Tb*. If *T* ̸≡ 0 mod *T<sup>s</sup>* , we use the HIBE and IBBE schemes to generate an incremental update key for non-revoked users 

{19}------------------------------------------------

between time  $T_b$  and time T. The method of creating the incremental update key is similar to that in the DRIBE scheme.

A generic DRIBE-INC scheme that uses DRIBE, HIBE, IBBE, and CRHF schemes is described as follows:

**DRIBE-INC.Setup** $(1^{\lambda})$ : Let  $\mathcal{I} = \{0,1\}^n$  be the identity space.

- 1. It first obtains  $MSK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $MUK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $RL_{DRIBE}$ ,  $PP_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.Setup**( $1^{\lambda}$ ). It obtains  $MK_{HIBE}$ ,  $PP_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.Setup**( $1^{\lambda}$ , 2) and obtains  $MK_{IBBE}$ ,  $PP_{IBBE}$  by running **IBBE.Setup**( $1^{\lambda}$ , n). It also selects a collision resistant hash function  $H \in \mathcal{H}$ .
- 2. It sets a binary tree  $\mathcal{BT}$  with depth n where an identity  $ID \in \mathcal{I}$  is uniquely assigned to a leaf node such that Label(v) = ID.
- 3. It outputs a master secret key  $MSK = (MSK_{DRIBE}, MK_{HIBE})$ , a master update key  $MUK = (MUK_{DRIBE}, MK_{IBBE})$ , and public parameters  $PP = (PP_{DRIBE}, PP_{HIBE}, PP_{IBBE}, H, \mathcal{BT})$ .

**DRIBE-INC.GenKey**(*ID*, *MSK*, *PP*): To generate a private key of *ID*, it proceeds as follows:

- 1. It obtains  $SK_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.GenKey**( $ID, MSK_{DRIBE}, PP_{DRIBE}$ ). It obtains  $SK_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.GenKey**( $ID, MK_{HIBE}, PP_{HIBE}$ ).
- 2. It outputs a private key  $SK_{ID} = (SK_{DRIBE}, SK_{HIBE})$ .
- **DRIBE-INC.Revoke**(ID, T, RL): If (ID, \*) already exists in RL, it outputs RL. Otherwise, it adds (ID, T) to RL and outputs the updated RL.
- **DRIBE-INC.UpdateKey** $(T_b, RL, MUK, PP)$ : Let  $T_b$  be base time such that  $T_b \equiv 0 \mod T_s$ . If  $T_b \not\equiv 0 \mod T_s$ , then it returns  $\bot$  since a base update key will not be generated.
  - 1. It initializes  $BRL = \emptyset$ . For each  $(ID_j, T_j) \in RL$ , it adds  $(ID_j, T_j)$  to BRL if  $T_j \leq T_b$ . It obtains  $UK_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.UpdateKey** $(T_b, BRL, MUK_{DRIBE}, PP_{DRIBE})$ .
  - 2. Finally, it outputs a base update key  $BUK_{T_b} = UK_{DRIBE}$ .

**DRIBE-INC.IncUpdateKey**(T, RL, MUK, PP): Let  $T = T_b + T_c$  where  $T_b \equiv 0 \mod T_s$  and  $0 \le T_c < T_s$ .

- 1. It initializes  $IRV = \emptyset$ . For each  $(ID_i, T_i) \in RL$ , it adds  $v_i$  which is associated with  $ID_i$  into IRV if  $T_b < T_i \le T$ . It obtains  $ICV_T$  by running **CS.Cover** $(\mathcal{BT}, IRV)$ .
- 2. For each  $S_i \in ICV_T$ , it obtains  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$  by running **IBBE.GenKey**( $H(Label(S_i)||T), MK_{IBBE}, PP_{IBBE}$ ).
- 3. Finally, it outputs an incremental update key  $IUK_T = (ICV_T, \{SK_{IBBE,S_i}\}_{S_i \in ICV_T})$ .
- **DRIBE-INC.VerifyBUK**( $BUK, T_b, RL, PP$ ): To verify the validity of BUK, it returns **DRIBE.VerifyUK** ( $BUK, T_b, RL, PP_{DRIBE}$ ).
- **DRIBE-INC.VerifyUK**(IUK, T, RL, PP): Let  $IUK = (ICV_T, \{SK_{IBBE, S_i}\})$ . It proceeds as follows:
  - 1. It initializes  $RV = \emptyset$ . For each  $(ID_j, T_j) \in RL$ , it adds a leaf node  $v_j \in \mathcal{BT}$  which is associated with  $ID_j$  into RV if  $T_j \leq T$ . It obtains CV' by running  $\mathbf{CS.Cover}(\mathcal{BT}, RV)$  and checks that  $CV' = CV_T$ .

{20}------------------------------------------------

- 2. It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in CV_T$ , it adds a string  $H(\text{Label}(S_i)||T)$  to S. It chooses a random  $M \in \mathcal{M}$  and obtains  $CT_{IBBE}$  by running **IBBE.Encrypt** $(S, M, PP_{IBBE})$ .
- 3. For each  $S_i \in CV_T$ , it performs the followings:
  - (a) It retrieves  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$  from  $UK_T$  and obtains M' by running **IBBE.Decrypt**( $CT_{IBBE}$ ,  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$ ,  $PP_{IBBE}$ ).
  - (b) If  $M' \neq M$ , then it outputs 0 since UK is invalid.
- 4. Finally, it outputs 1 since UK is valid.
- **DRIBE-INC.DeriveKey**( $SK_{ID}$ ,  $BUK_{T_b}$ ,  $IUK_T$ , PP): Let  $SK_{ID} = SK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $BUK_{T_b} = UK_{DRIBE}$ , and  $IUK_T = (ICV_T, \{SK_{IBBE}, S_i\})$ . If  $T \neq T_b + T_c$  for some  $T_c$  such that  $0 \leq T_c < T_s$ , then it returns  $\bot$  since  $BUK_{T_b}$  and  $IUK_T$  are not a valid update key pair.
  - 1. It obtains  $DK_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.DeriveKey**( $SK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $UK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $PP_{DRIBE}$ ). If  $DK_{DRIBE} = \bot$ , it returns  $\bot$  since ID was revoked.
  - 2. It obtains  $PV_{ID}$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v_{ID})$  where  $v_{ID}$  is a leaf node such that  $ID = \mathrm{Label}(v_{ID})$ . If  $PV_{ID} \cap ICV_T = \emptyset$ , then it outputs  $\perp$  since ID was revoked in  $IUK_T$ .
  - 3. It obtains  $DK_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.DelegateKey**( $SK_{HIBE}$ , T,  $PP_{HIBE}$ ).
  - 4. Finally, it outputs a decryption key  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{DRIBE}, DK_{HIBE}, IUK_T)$ .
- **DRIBE-INC.Encrypt**(ID, T, M, PP): Let  $T = T_b + T_c$  where  $T_b \equiv 0 \mod T_s$  and  $0 \le T_c < T_s$ .
  - 1. It selects random  $M_1, M_2 \in \mathcal{M}$  and sets  $M_3 = M \oplus M_1 \oplus M_2$ . It obtains  $CT_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.Encrypt**( $ID, T_b, M_1, PP_{DRIBE}$ ). It also obtains  $CT_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.Encrypt**( $ID, T, M_2, PP_{HIBE}$ ).
  - 2. Let  $v_{ID}$  be a leaf node associated with ID such that  $ID = \text{Label}(v_{ID})$ . It obtains  $PV_{ID}$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v_{ID})$ .
  - 3. It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV_{ID}$ , it adds a string  $H(\text{Label}(S_i)||T)$  to S. Next, it obtains  $CT_{IBBE}$  by running **IBBE.Encrypt** $(S, M_3, PP_{IBBE})$ .
  - 4. Finally, it outputs a ciphertext  $CT_{ID,T} = (CT_{DRIBE}, CT_{HIBE}, CT_{IBBE})$ .
- **DRIBE-INC.Decrypt**( $CT_{ID,T}, DK_{ID',T'}, PP$ ): Let  $CT_{ID,T} = (CT_{DRIBE}, CT_{HIBE}, CT_{IBBE})$  and  $DK_{ID',T'} = (DK_{DRIBE}, DK_{HIBE}, IUK_T)$  where  $IUK_T = (ICV_T, \{SK_{IBBE}, S_i\})$ . If  $(ID \neq ID') \lor (T \neq T')$ , then it returns  $\bot$ . Otherwise, it proceeds as follows:
  - 1. It obtains  $M_1$  by running **DRIBE.Decrypt**( $CT_{DRIBE}$ ,  $DK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $PP_{DRIBE}$ ). It obtains  $M_2$  by running **HIBE.Decrypt**( $CT_{HIBE}$ ,  $DK_{HIBE}$ ,  $PP_{HIBE}$ ).
  - 2. It obtains  $PV_{ID}$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v_{ID})$  where  $v_{ID}$  be a leaf node such that  $\mathsf{Label}(v_{ID}) = ID$ .
  - 3. It finds  $(S_i, S_i)$  by running **CS.Match** $(CV_T, PV_{ID})$ . If it fails to find, it returns  $\bot$ .
  - 4. It retrieves  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$  from  $IUK_T$  and obtains  $M_3$  by running  $\mathbf{IBBE.Decrypt}(CT_{IBBE},SK_{IBBE,S_i},PP_{IBBE})$ .
  - 5. Finally, it outputs a message  $M = M_1 \oplus M_2 \oplus M_3$ .

{21}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-21-0"></span>4.3 Correctness

In this section we show the correctness of the DRIBE-INC scheme. The ciphertext of our DRIBE-INC scheme consists of three elements: a DRIBE ciphertext, an HIBE ciphertext, and an IBBE ciphertext. First, if the identity ID of the DRIBE ciphertext is not revoked in a base update key, we can decrypt  $M_1$  by the correctness of the DRIBE scheme. Then, if ID and T of the HIBE ciphertext and ID and T of an HIBE decryption key are the same, we can decrypt  $M_2$  by the correctness of the HIBE scheme. Now, when the leaf node of a binary tree associated with ID is not revoked in an incremental update key, a common node  $\nu$  exists by the correctness of the CS scheme. At this time, the IBBE ciphertext sets path nodes as a set of recipients, and an update key consists of IBBE private keys associated with cover nodes. Because of this, the common node becomes an element in path nodes, so we can decrypt  $M_3$  by the correctness of the IBBE scheme. Therefore, we can derive the original message by computing  $M = M_1 \oplus M_2 \oplus M_3$ .

### <span id="page-21-1"></span>4.4 Security Analysis

In this section, we show that our DRIBE-INC scheme provides the IND-CPA security and the IND-UKA security by relying on the security of underlying cryptographic primitives.

**Theorem 4.1.** The above DRIBE-INC scheme is IND-CPA secure if the underlying DRIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure, HIBE and IBBE schemes are IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Let  $ID^*$  be the challenge identity and  $T^*$  be the challenge time such that  $T^* = T_b^* + T_c^*$ . We divide the behavior of an adversary as three types: Type-A, Type-B, and Type-C. These types are defined as follows:

**Type-A.** An adversary is type-A if it queries a private key corresponding to  $ID \neq ID^*$  for all private keys.

**Type-B.** An adversary is type-B if it queries a private key corresponding to  $ID = ID^*$  and the private key of  $ID^*$  is revoked at some time T such that  $T \le T_b^*$ .

**Type-C.** An adversary is type-C if it queries a private key corresponding to  $ID = ID^*$  and the private key of  $ID^*$  is revoked at some time T such that  $T_b^* < T \le T^*$ .

Let  $E_i$  be the event that A behaves like type-i adversary. From Lemmas 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4, we obtain the following result

$$\mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE-INC,\mathcal{A}}^{IND-CPA}(\lambda) \leq \Pr[E_A] \cdot \mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE-INC,\mathcal{A}}^{IND-CPA}(\lambda) + \Pr[E_B] \cdot \mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE-INC,\mathcal{A}}^{IND-CPA}(\lambda) + \\ \Pr[E_C] \cdot \mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE-INC,\mathcal{A}}^{IND-CPA}(\lambda) \\ \leq \mathbf{Adv}_{HIBE,\mathcal{B}}^{IND-CPA}(\lambda) + \mathbf{Adv}_{DRIBE,\mathcal{B}}^{IND-CPA}(\lambda) + \mathbf{Adv}_{IBBE,\mathcal{B}}^{IND-CPA}(\lambda).$$

This completes our proof.

<span id="page-21-2"></span>**Lemma 4.2.** For the type-A adversary, the DRIBE-INC scheme is IND-CPA secure if the HIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Suppose there exists a type-A adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that attacks the DRIBE-INC scheme with a non-negligible advantage. An algorithm  $\mathcal{B}$  that attacks the HIBE scheme is initially given public parameters  $PP_{HIBE}$  by a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  that interacts with  $\mathcal{A}$  is described as follows:

**Setup:**  $\mathcal{B}$  obtains  $MSK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $MUK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $PP_{DRIBE}$  by running the **DRIBE.Setup** algorithm. It obtains  $MK_{IBBE}$ ,  $PP_{IBBE}$  by running the **IBBE.Setup** algorithm. It initializes  $RL = \emptyset$  and gives  $PP = (PP_{DRIBE}, PP_{HIBE}, PP_{IBBE}, H, \mathcal{BT})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

{22}------------------------------------------------

**Phase 1:** A adaptively requests a polynomial number of private key, revocation, base update key, incremental update key, and decryption key queries.

- For a private key query on ID,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $SK_{DRIBE}$  by using  $MSK_{DRIBE}$ . Next, it receives  $SK_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key for ID. It gives  $SK_{ID} = (SK_{DRIBE}, SK_{HIBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a revocation query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It adds (ID,T) to RL if ID was not revoked before.
- For a base update key query on  $T_b$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $BUK_{T_b}$  by using  $MUK_{DRIBE}$ . It gives  $BUK_{T_b}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For an incremental update key query on  $T = T_b + T_c$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $IUK_T$  by using  $MK_{IBBE}$ . It gives  $IUK_T$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a decryption key query on ID and  $T = T_b + T_c$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $DK_{DRIBE}$  for  $T_b$  by using  $MSK_{DRIBE}$  and  $MUK_{DRIBE}$ . It receives  $DK_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key for ID and T. Next, it generates  $IUK_T$  by using  $MK_{IBBE}$ . It gives  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{DRIBE}, DK_{HIBE}, IUK_T)$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$  where  $T^* = T_b^* + T_c^*$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:

- 1. It selects random  $M_1, M_3$  and sets  $M_{2,0} = M_0^* \oplus M_1 \oplus M_3, M_{2,1} = M_1^* \oplus M_1 \oplus M_3$ .
- 2. Next, it generates  $CT^*_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.Encrypt** $(ID^*, T_b^*, M_1, PP_{DRIBE})$ . It receives  $CT^*_{HIBE}$  from C by submitting challenge  $ID^*$ ,  $T^*$ , and challenge messages  $M^*_{2.0}, M^*_{2.1}$ .
- 3. It obtains  $PV^*$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(v^*)$  where  $v^*$  is associated with  $ID^*$ . It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV_{ID}$ , it adds a string  $H(\mathsf{Label}(S_i) \| T)$  to S. It creates  $CT^*_{IBBE}$  by running  $\mathbf{IBBE.Encrypt}(S, M_3, PP_{IBBE})$ .
- 4. It gives a challenge ciphertext  $CT^* = (CT^*_{DRIBE}, CT^*_{HIBE}, CT^*_{IBBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

#### Phase 2: Same as Phase 1.

**Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also outputs  $\mu'$ .

To complete the proof, we analyze the correctness of the simulation. For this, we show that it is possible to process the private key and decryption key query for the DRIBE-INC scheme by using the private key query for the HIBE scheme. Similar to analysis of Lemma 3.2, all private key and decryption key queries can be handled using the HIBE private key query by the restrictions of the type-A adversary and the restrictions of the decryption key queries in the DRIBE-INC security model. The challenge ciphertext is set so that the distinction of the DRIBE-INC challenge message is related with that of the HIBE challenge message.

<span id="page-22-0"></span>**Lemma 4.3.** For the type-B adversary, the DRIBE-INC scheme is IND-CPA secure if the DRIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Suppose there exists a type-B adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that attacks the DRIBE-INC scheme with a non-negligible advantage. An algorithm  $\mathcal{B}$  that attacks the DRIBE scheme is initially given public parameters  $PP_{DRIBE}$  by a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  that interacts with  $\mathcal{A}$  is described as follows:

**Setup:**  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $MK_{HIBE}$ ,  $PP_{HIBE}$  by running the **HIBE.Setup** algorithm and generates  $MK_{IBBE}$ ,  $PP_{IBBE}$  by running the **IBBE.Setup** algorithm. It initializes  $RL = \emptyset$  and gives  $PP = (PP_{DRIBE}, PP_{HIBE}, PP_{IBBE}, H, \mathcal{BT})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

{23}------------------------------------------------

**Phase 1:** A adaptively requests a polynomial number of private key, revocation, base update key, incremental update key, and decryption key queries.

- For a private key query on ID,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It receives  $SK_{DRIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key with ID. It generates  $SK_{HIBE}$  by using  $MK_{HIBE}$ . It gives  $SK_{ID} = (SK_{DRIBE}, SK_{HIBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a revocation query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It queries the revocation of ID and T to  $\mathcal{C}$ . Next, it adds (ID, T) to RL if ID was not revoked before.
- For a base update key query on  $T_b$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It receives  $UK_{DRIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying an update key with  $T_b$ . It gives  $BUK_{T_b} = UK_{DRIBE}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For an incremental update key query on T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $IUK_T$  by using  $MK_{IBBE}$ . It gives  $IUK_T$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a decryption key query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It first receives  $DK_{DRIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a decryption key for ID and  $T_b$ . It derives  $DK_{HIBE}$  of  $SK_{HIBE}$  by using  $MK_{HIBE}$ . Next, it generates  $IUK_T$  by using  $MK_{IBBE}$ . It gives  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{DRIBE}, DK_{HIBE}, IUK_T)$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$  where  $T^* = T_b^* + T_c^*$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:

- 1. It select random  $M_2, M_3$  and sets  $M_{1,0} = M_0^* \oplus M_2 \oplus M_3, M_{1,1} = M_1^* \oplus M_2 \oplus M_3$ .
- 2. Next, it receives  $CT^*_{DRIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by submitting  $ID^*$ ,  $T^*_b$ , and two challenge messages  $M_{1,0}, M_{1,1}$ . It obtains  $CT^*_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.Encrypt** $(ID^*, T^*, M_2, PP_{HIBE})$ .
- 3. It obtains  $PV^*$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(v^*)$  where  $v^*$  is associated with  $ID^*$ . It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV^*$ , it adds a string  $H(\mathrm{Label}(S_i)||T^*)$  to S. It creates  $CT^*_{IBBE}$  by running  $\mathbf{IBBE.Encrypt}(S, M_3, PP_{IBBE})$ .
- 4. It gives a challenge ciphertext  $CT^* = (CT^*_{DRIBE}, CT^*_{HIBE}, CT^*_{IBBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

Phase 2: Same as Phase 1.

**Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also outputs  $\mu'$ .

To analyze the correctness of the simulation, we show that it is possible to process all DRIBE-INC queries of the adversary by using DRIBE queries. The private key and base update key queries are handled correctly using the private key and the update key of DRIBE, respectively. In the case of a type-B adversary, the decryption key query can be processed under the constraint that if the private key for  $ID^*$  is queried, then the corresponding  $ID^*$  is revoked before the time  $T_b^*$ . For reference, if you query the decryption key for  $ID^*$  and  $T \ge T_b^*$ , then the simulator simply outputs  $\bot$  as a decryption key since the decryption key for  $ID^*$  and  $T \ge T_b^*$  does not exist when  $ID^*$  has already been revoked. The challenge ciphertext is set so that the DRIBE-INC challenge message is related to the DRIBE challenge message.

<span id="page-23-0"></span>**Lemma 4.4.** For the type-C adversary, the DRIBE-INC scheme is IND-CPA secure if the IBBE scheme is IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Suppose there exists a type-C adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that attacks the DRIBE-INC scheme with a non-negligible advantage. An algorithm  $\mathcal{B}$  that attacks the IBBE scheme is initially given public parameters  $PP_{IBBE}$  by a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  that interacts with  $\mathcal{A}$  is described as follows:

{24}------------------------------------------------

**Setup:**  $\mathcal{B}$  obtains  $MSK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $MUK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $PP_{DRIBE}$  by running the **DRIBE.Setup** algorithm. It also obtains  $MK_{HIBE}$ ,  $PP_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.Setup** algorithm. It initializes  $RL = \emptyset$  and gives  $PP = (PP_{DRIBE}, PP_{HIBE}, PP_{IBBE}, H, \mathcal{BT})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Phase 1:** A adaptively requests a polynomial number of private key, revocation, base update key, incremental update key, and decryption key queries.

- For a private key query on ID,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $SK_{DRIBE}$  by using  $MSK_{DRIBE}$ . Next, it generates  $SK_{HIBE}$  by using  $MK_{HIBE}$ . It gives  $SK_{ID} = (SK_{DRIBE}, SK_{HIBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a revocation query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It adds (ID,T) to RL if ID was not revoked before.
- For a base update key query on  $T_b$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $UK_{DRIBE}$  for  $T_b$  by using  $MUK_{DRIBE}$ . It gives  $BUK_{T_b} = UK_{DRIBE}$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For an incremental update key query on  $T = T_b + T_c$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:
  - 1. It initializes  $IRV = \emptyset$ . For each  $(ID_i, T_i) \in RL$ , it adds  $v_i$  of  $ID_i$  into IRV if  $T_b < T_i \le T$ . It obtains  $ICV_T$  by running **CS.Cover** $(\mathcal{BT}, IRV)$ .
  - 2. For each  $S_i \in ICV_T$ , it receives  $SK_{IBBE,S_i}$  from C by querying a private key for  $H(Label(S_i)||T)$ .
  - 3. It creates  $IUK_T = (ICV_T, \{SK_{IBBE,S_i}\}_{S_i \in ICV_T})$  and gives  $IUK_T$  to A.
- For a decryption key query on ID and  $T = T_b + T_c$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $DK_{DRIBE}$  by using  $MSK_{DRIBE}$  and  $MUK_{DRIBE}$ . Next, it retrieves  $IUK_T$  by querying an incremental update key to its own oracle. It generates a delegated key  $DK_{HIBE}$  of  $SK_{HIBE}$  by using  $MK_{HIBE}$ . It gives  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{DRIBE}, DK_{HIBE}, IUK_T)$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$  where  $T^* = T_b^* + T_c^*$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:

- 1. It selects random  $M_1, M_2$  and sets  $M_{3,0} = M_0^* \oplus M_1 \oplus M_2, M_{3,1} = M_1^* \oplus M_1 \oplus M_2$ .
- 2. Next, it generates  $CT^*_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.Encrypt** $(ID^*, T_b^*, M_1, PP_{DRIBE})$ . It generates  $CT^*_{HIBE}$  by running **HIBE.Encrypt** $((ID^*, T^*), M_2, PP_{HIBE})$ .
- 3. It obtains  $PV^*$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v^*)$  where a leaf node  $v^*$  is associated with  $ID^*$ . It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV^*$ , it adds  $H(\text{Label}(S_i)||T^*)$  to S. It receives  $CT^*_{IBBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by submitting a challenge set S and challenge messages  $M_{3,0}, M_{3,1}$ .
- 4. It gives a challenge ciphertext  $CT^* = (CT^*_{DRIBE}, CT^*_{HIBE}, CT^*_{IBBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

#### Phase 2: Same as Phase 1.

**Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also outputs  $\mu'$ .

To analyze the correctness of the simulation, we show that it is possible to process all DRIBE-INC queries of the adversary by using IBBE queries. From the restriction of a type-C adversary, we have that the challenge identity  $ID^*$  is revoked from an incremental update key at time  $T^*$  if the private key for  $ID^*$  is queried. The incremental update key at time  $T^*$  is composed of the IBBE private key corresponding to the cover nodes of a binary tree, and the ciphertext for  $ID^*$  and  $T^*$  is an IBBE ciphertext that uses the path nodes for  $ID^*$  as the receiver set. In this case, since the path nodes for  $ID^*$  are removed from the

{25}------------------------------------------------

incremental update key at time  $T^*$ , the IBBE private key belonging to the recipient set is not created. Thus the incremental update key can be generated by using the IBBE private key queries. The IBBE decryption key query can also be generated since the incremental update key is correctly processed.

**Theorem 4.5.** The above DRIBE-INC scheme is IND-UKA secure if the HIBE scheme is IND-CPA secure.

*Proof.* Suppose there exists an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that attacks the DRIBE-INC scheme with a non-negligible advantage. An algorithm  $\mathcal{B}$  that attacks the HIBE scheme is initially given public parameters  $PP_{HIBE}$  by a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  that interacts with  $\mathcal{A}$  is described as follows:

**Setup:**  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $MSK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $MUK_{DRIBE}$ ,  $PP_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.Setup** algorithm. It also generates  $MK_{IBBE}$ ,  $PP_{IBBE}$  by running the **IBBE.Setup** algorithm. It initializes  $RL = \emptyset$  and gives  $MUK = (MUK_{DRIBE}, MK_{IBBE})$ ,  $PP = (PP_{DRIBE}, PP_{HIBE}, PP_{IBBE}, H, \mathcal{BT})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Phase 1:** A adaptively requests a polynomial number of private key, revocation, and decryption key queries.

- For a private key query on ID,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It generates  $SK_{DRIBE}$  by using  $MSK_{DRIBE}$ . It receives  $SK_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key for ID. It gives  $SK_{ID} = (SK_{DRIBE}, SK_{HIBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .
- For a revocation query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  updates RL by running **DRIBE.Revoke**(ID, T, RL).
- For a decryption key query on ID and T,  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows: It receives  $DK_{HIBE}$  from  $\mathcal{C}$  by querying a private key for ID and T. It generates  $IUK_T$  by using  $MK_{IBBE}$ . It gives  $DK_{ID,T} = (DK_{DRIBE}, DK_{HIBE}, IUK_T)$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Challenge**:  $\mathcal{A}$  submits a challenge identity  $ID^*$ , challenge time  $T^*$ , and two challenge messages  $M_0^*, M_1^*$  where  $T^* = T_b^* + T_c^*$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  proceeds as follows:

- 1. It first select random  $M_1, M_3 \in \mathcal{M}$  and sets  $M_{2,0} = M_0^* \oplus M_1 \oplus M_3, M_{2,1} = M_1^* \oplus M_1 \oplus M_3$ .
- 2. Next, it generates  $CT^*_{DRIBE}$  by running **DRIBE.Encrypt** $(ID^*, T_b^*, M_1, PP_{DRIBE})$ . It receives  $CT^*_{HIBE}$  from C by submitting challenge  $ID^*$ ,  $T^*$ , and challenge  $M_{2,0}, M_{2,1}$ .
- 3. It obtains  $PV^*$  by running  $\mathbf{CS.Assign}(\mathcal{BT}, v^*)$  where a leaf node  $v^*$  is associated with  $ID^*$ . It sets  $S = \emptyset$ . For each  $S_i \in PV^*$ , it adds  $H(\mathsf{Label}(S_i) || T^*)$  to S. It generates  $CT^*_{IBBE}$  by running  $\mathbf{DRIBE.Encrypt}(S, M_3, PP_{IBBE})$ .

4. It gives a challenge ciphertext  $CT^* = (CT^*_{DRIBE}, CT^*_{HIBE}, CT^*_{IBBE})$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

Phase 2: Same as Phase 1.

**Guess**: Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs a guess  $\mu' \in \{0,1\}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also outputs  $\mu'$ .

#### <span id="page-25-0"></span>4.5 Discussions

Efficiency Analysis. The private key of our DRIBE-INC scheme is compact because it is composed of a DRIBE private key which is an HIBE private key and an additional HIBE private key. The ciphertext is also compact because it consists of a DRIBE ciphertext, an HIBE ciphertext, and an IBBE ciphertext. The base update key consists of a DRIBE update key and an incremental update key consists of many IBBE private keys. For concrete analysis of the update key size, the number of revoked users r in the base update key and the number of revoked users s in the incremental update key must be determined. We set the maximum number of users in the system to  $2^{30}$ , the security parameter to 80 bits, and the hash length to 160 bits. For

{26}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-26-2"></span>Table 1: Comparison of RIBE schemes in bilinear groups

| Scheme    | PP Size | SK Size  | UK Size            | CT Size       | DKER, GC, UKD       |
|-----------|---------|----------|--------------------|---------------|---------------------|
| BF [6]    | O(1)    | O(1)     | O(N −r)            | O(1)          | Yes,<br>Yes,<br>No  |
| BGK [3]   | O(1)    | O(logN)  | O(rlog N<br>)<br>r | O(1)          | No,<br>No,<br>No    |
| LV [24]   | O(λ)    | O(logN)  | O(rlog N<br>)<br>r | O(1)          | No,<br>No,<br>No    |
| SE [31]   | O(λ)    | O(logN)  | O(rlog N<br>)<br>r | O(1)          | Yes,<br>No,<br>No   |
| LLP [21]  | O(1)    | O(log2N) | O(r)               | O(1)          | Yes,<br>No,<br>No   |
| WES [34]  | O(1)    | O(logN)  | O(rlog N<br>)<br>r | O(1)          | Yes,<br>No,<br>No   |
| ML1 [25]  | O(1)    | O(1)     | O(rn)              | O(n)          | Yes,<br>Yes,<br>No  |
| ML2 [25]  | O(n)    | O(1)     | O(rn2<br>)         | O(1)          | Yes,<br>Yes,<br>No  |
| Lee [18]  | O(1)    | O(1)     | O(r)               | 2<br>O(n<br>) | Yes,<br>Yes,<br>No  |
| DRIBE     | O(n)    | O(1)     | O(rn)              | O(1)          | Yes,<br>Yes,<br>Yes |
| DRIBE-INC | O(n)    | O(1)     | rn<br>O(<br>m +sn) | O(1)          | Yes,<br>Yes,<br>Yes |

Let λ be a security parameter, *N* be the number of maximum users, *r* be the number of revoked users, *n* be the depth of a binary tree in generic constructions, *m* be the interval of base update keys, and *s* be the number of revoked users in incremental update keys. We count the number of group elements to measure the size. We use symbols DKER for decryption key exposure resistance, GC for generic construction, and UKD for update key delegation.

comparison, consider a scenario in which an RIBE scheme issues a daily update key, and the DRIBE-INC scheme issues a base update key once a month and a daily incremental update key. In this case, we compare the update key size of the RIBE scheme and the DRIBE-INC scheme. The update key of the RIBE scheme which is generated every day consists of *r*log2<sup>30</sup> = 30*r* binary tree nodes. The base update key of the DRIBE-INC scheme which is generated once a month consists of *r*log2<sup>160</sup> = 160*r* binary tree nodes. The incremental update key of the DRIBE-INC scheme is *s*log2<sup>160</sup> = 160*s* = 160(*r*/10) = 16*r* binary tree nodes if we simply set *s* = *r*/10. Therefore, the amortized size of the update key of the DRIBE-INC scheme is 160*r*/30+16*r* = 21.3*r* binary tree nodes, and it is similar to that of the RIBE scheme.

# <span id="page-26-0"></span>5 Instantiations

In this section, we instantiate our DRIBE schemes by using bilinear groups or lattices.

### <span id="page-26-1"></span>5.1 DRIBE from Bilinear Maps

We instantiate our DRIBE scheme using pairing-based encryption schemes. First, we consider realizing a DRIBE scheme that provides the full-model security. For this, we select the HIBE scheme of Waters [\[35\]](#page-30-6) that provides full-model security under the standard assumption. We select the IBBE scheme of Gentry and Waters [\[15\]](#page-29-13) which has a constant-size ciphertext and a short private key because it provides the full-model security in the random oracle model. For a cryptographic hash function, we select the SHA256 scheme and truncate the hash output if necessary. Next, we consider realizing a DRIBE scheme that provides 

{27}------------------------------------------------

the selective security. We select the efficient HIBE scheme of Boneh and Boyen [\[4\]](#page-28-3) which provides the selective security under the standard assumption. Alternatively, if we want to reduce the ciphertext size, we can select the HIBE scheme of Boneh et al. [\[5\]](#page-28-8) with constant size ciphertext. We select the IBBE scheme of Delerablee [\[12\]](#page-28-10) which has a constant size ciphertext and a short private key. We also select the SHA256 scheme as a hash function. The detailed comparison of RIBE schemes in bilinear groups is given in Table [1.](#page-26-2)

### <span id="page-27-0"></span>5.2 DRIBE from Lattices

We instantiate our DRIBE scheme using lattice-based encryption schemes. For a lattice HIBE scheme, we select the efficient HIBE scheme of Agrawal et al. [\[1\]](#page-27-3) that provides the selective security under the LWE assumption. For a lattice IBBE scheme, we try to use the IBBE scheme of Brakerski and Vaikuntanathan [\[7\]](#page-28-11) which is derived from their ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption scheme. One drawback of this IBBE scheme is that it lacks the formal security analysis. Another alternative for the IBBE scheme is to use the fixed-dimension HIBE scheme of Agrawal et al. [\[2\]](#page-27-2) with short ciphertexts to replace the IBBE scheme. In this case, the IBBE encryption is replaced by the HIBE encryption on the path string of a leaf node, and the IBBE key generation is replaced by the HIBE key generation for cover nodes in a binary tree. The IBBE decryption is possible by using the private key delegation of the HIBE scheme. Finally, we select the SHA256 scheme and truncate the hash output if necessary.

# <span id="page-27-1"></span>6 Conclusion

In this paper, we introduced the concept of DRIBE that delegates the generation of update keys to a semitrusted cloud server, and proposed an efficient DRIBE scheme by generically combining an HIBE scheme, an IBBE scheme, and a hash function. Our proposed DRIBE scheme satisfies not only the IND-CPA but also the IND-UKA security. In addition, we proposed an DRIBE-INC scheme that supports incremental update keys to reduce the update key size of our DRIBE scheme. Our DRIBE-INC scheme has the effect of reducing the overall update key size by issuing a large-sized base update key occasionally and a small-sized incremental update key periodically.

# Acknowledgements

This work was supported as part of Military Crypto Research Center (UD210027XD) funded by Defense Acquisition Program Administration (DAPA) and Agency for Defense Development (ADD).

# References

- <span id="page-27-3"></span>[1] Shweta Agrawal, Dan Boneh, and Xavier Boyen. Efficient lattice (H)IBE in the standard model. In Henri Gilbert, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2010*, volume 6110 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 553–572. Springer, 2010.
- <span id="page-27-2"></span>[2] Shweta Agrawal, Dan Boneh, and Xavier Boyen. Lattice basis delegation in fixed dimension and shorter-ciphertext hierarchical IBE. In Tal Rabin, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2010*, volume 6223 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 98–115. Springer, 2010.

{28}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-28-0"></span>[3] Alexandra Boldyreva, Vipul Goyal, and Virendra Kumar. Identity-based encryption with efficient revocation. In Peng Ning, Paul F. Syverson, and Somesh Jha, editors, *ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security - CCS 2008*, pages 417–426. ACM, 2008.
- <span id="page-28-3"></span>[4] Dan Boneh and Xavier Boyen. Efficient selective-ID secure identity-based encryption without random oracles. In Christian Cachin and Jan Camenisch, editors, *Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2004*, volume 3027 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 223–238. Springer, 2004.
- <span id="page-28-8"></span>[5] Dan Boneh, Xavier Boyen, and Eu-Jin Goh. Hierarchical identity based encryption with constant size ciphertext. In Ronald Cramer, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2005*, volume 3494 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 440–456. Springer, 2005.
- <span id="page-28-1"></span>[6] Dan Boneh and Matthew K. Franklin. Identity-based encryption from the Weil pairing. In Joe Kilian, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2001*, volume 2139 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 213–229. Springer, 2001.
- <span id="page-28-11"></span>[7] Zvika Brakerski and Vinod Vaikuntanathan. Lattice-inspired broadcast encryption and succinct ciphertext-policy ABE. In Mark Braverman, editor, *Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science Conference - ITCS 2022*, volume 215 of *LIPIcs*, pages 28:1–28:20. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum fur Informatik, 2022. ¨
- <span id="page-28-9"></span>[8] David Cash, Dennis Hofheinz, Eike Kiltz, and Chris Peikert. Bonsai trees, or how to delegate a lattice basis. In Henri Gilbert, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2010*, volume 6110 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 523–552. Springer, 2010.
- <span id="page-28-6"></span>[9] Jie Chen, Hoon Wei Lim, San Ling, Huaxiong Wang, and Khoa Nguyen. Revocable identity-based encryption from lattices. In Willy Susilo, Yi Mu, and Jennifer Seberry, editors, *Information Security and Privacy - ACISP 2012*, volume 7372 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 390–403. Springer, 2012.
- <span id="page-28-4"></span>[10] Clifford C. Cocks. An identity based encryption scheme based on quadratic residues. In Bahram Honary, editor, *Cryptography and Coding*, volume 2260 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 360–363. Springer, 2001.
- <span id="page-28-2"></span>[11] David Cooper, Stefan Santesson, Stephen Farrell, Sharon Boeyen, Russell Housley, and W. Timothy Polk. Internet X.509 public key infrastructure certificate and certificate revocation list (CRL) profile. RFC 5280, May 2008.
- <span id="page-28-10"></span>[12] Cecile Delerabl ´ ee. Identity-based broadcast encryption with constant size ciphertexts and private keys. ´ In Kaoru Kurosawa, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - ASIACRYPT 2007*, volume 4833 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 200–215. Springer, 2007.
- <span id="page-28-5"></span>[13] Craig Gentry, Chris Peikert, and Vinod Vaikuntanathan. Trapdoors for hard lattices and new cryptographic constructions. In Cynthia Dwork, editor, *ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing - STOC 2008*, pages 197–206. ACM, 2008.
- <span id="page-28-7"></span>[14] Craig Gentry and Alice Silverberg. Hierarchical ID-based cryptography. In Yuliang Zheng, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - ASIACRYPT 2002*, volume 2501 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 548–566. Springer, 2002.

{29}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-29-13"></span>[15] Craig Gentry and Brent Waters. Adaptive security in broadcast encryption systems (with short ciphertexts). In Antoine Joux, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2009*, volume 5479 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 171–188. Springer, 2009.
- <span id="page-29-8"></span>[16] Jeremy Horwitz and Ben Lynn. Toward hierarchical identity-based encryption. In Lars R. Knudsen, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT 2002*, volume 2332 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 466–481. Springer, 2002.
- <span id="page-29-9"></span>[17] Shuichi Katsumata, Takahiro Matsuda, and Atsushi Takayasu. Lattice-based revocable (hierarchical) IBE with decryption key exposure resistance. In Dongdai Lin and Kazue Sako, editors, *Public-Key Cryptography - PKC 2019*, volume 11443 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 441–471. Springer, 2019.
- <span id="page-29-7"></span>[18] Kwangsu Lee. A generic construction for revocable identity-based encryption with subset difference methods. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/798, 2019. [http://eprint.iacr.org/](http://eprint.iacr.org/2019/798) [2019/798](http://eprint.iacr.org/2019/798).
- <span id="page-29-3"></span>[19] Kwangsu Lee. Revocable hierarchical identity-based encryption with adaptive security. *Theoretical Computer Science*, 880:37–68, 2021.
- <span id="page-29-10"></span>[20] Kwangsu Lee and Joon Sik Kim. A generic approach to build revocable hierarchical identity-based encryption. *IEEE Access*, 10:44178–44199, 2022.
- <span id="page-29-0"></span>[21] Kwangsu Lee, Dong Hoon Lee, and Jong Hwan Park. Efficient revocable identity-based encryption via subset difference methods. *Des. Codes Cryptogr.*, 85(1):39–76, 2017.
- <span id="page-29-4"></span>[22] Kwangsu Lee and Seunghwan Park. Revocable hierarchical identity-based encryption with shorter private keys and update keys. *Des. Codes Cryptogr.*, 86(10):2407–2440, 2018.
- <span id="page-29-5"></span>[23] Jin Li, Jingwei Li, Xiaofeng Chen, Chunfu Jia, and Wenjing Lou. Identity-based encryption with outsourced revocation in cloud computing. *IEEE Trans. Computers*, 64(2):425–437, 2015.
- <span id="page-29-1"></span>[24] Benoˆıt Libert and Damien Vergnaud. Adaptive-ID secure revocable identity-based encryption. In Marc Fischlin, editor, *Topics in Cryptology - CT-RSA 2009*, volume 5473 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 1–15. Springer, 2009.
- <span id="page-29-6"></span>[25] Xuecheng Ma and Dongdai Lin. Generic constructions of revocable identity-based encryption. In Zhe Liu and Moti Yung, editors, *Information Security and Cryptology - Inscrypt 2019*, volume 12020 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 381–396. Springer, 2019.
- <span id="page-29-11"></span>[26] Dalit Naor, Moni Naor, and Jeffery Lotspiech. Revocation and tracing schemes for stateless receivers. In Joe Kilian, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2001*, volume 2139 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 41–62. Springer, 2001.
- <span id="page-29-2"></span>[27] Seunghwan Park, Kwangsu Lee, and Dong Hoon Lee. New constructions of revocable identity-based encryption from multilinear maps. *IEEE Trans. Inf. Forensic Secur.*, 10(8):1564–1577, 2015.
- <span id="page-29-12"></span>[28] Baodong Qin, Robert H. Deng, Yingjiu Li, and Shengli Liu. Server-aided revocable identity-based encryption. In Gunther Pernul, Peter Y. A. Ryan, and Edgar R. Weippl, editors, ¨ *Computer Security - ESORICS 2015*, volume 9326 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 286–304. Springer, 2015.

{30}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-30-2"></span>[29] Geumsook Ryu, Kwangsu Lee, Seunghwan Park, and Dong Hoon Lee. Unbounded hierarchical identity-based encryption with efficient revocation. In Howon Kim and Dooho Choi, editors, *Information Security Applications - WISA 2015*, volume 9503 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 122–133. Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-30-3"></span>[30] Jae Hong Seo and Keita Emura. Efficient delegation of key generation and revocation functionalities in identity-based encryption. In Ed Dawson, editor, *Topics in Cryptology - CT-RSA 2013*, volume 7779 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 343–358. Springer, 2013.
- <span id="page-30-0"></span>[31] Jae Hong Seo and Keita Emura. Revocable identity-based encryption revisited: Security model and construction. In Kaoru Kurosawa and Goichiro Hanaoka, editors, *Public-Key Cryptography - PKC 2013*, volume 7778 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 216–234. Springer, 2013.
- <span id="page-30-4"></span>[32] Jae Hong Seo and Keita Emura. Revocable hierarchical identity-based encryption: History-free update, security against insiders, and short ciphertexts. In Kaisa Nyberg, editor, *Topics in Cryptology - CT-RSA 2015*, volume 9048 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 106–123. Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-30-5"></span>[33] Adi Shamir. Identity-based cryptosystems and signature schemes. In G. R. Blakley and David Chaum, editors, *Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO '84*, volume 196 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 47–53. Springer, 1984.
- <span id="page-30-1"></span>[34] Yohei Watanabe, Keita Emura, and Jae Hong Seo. New revocable IBE in prime-order groups: Adaptively secure, decryption key exposure resistant, and with short public parameters. In Helena Handschuh, editor, *Topics in Cryptology - CT-RSA 2017*, volume 10159 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 432–449. Springer, 2017.
- <span id="page-30-6"></span>[35] Brent Waters. Dual system encryption: Realizing fully secure IBE and HIBE under simple assumptions. In Shai Halevi, editor, *Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2009*, volume 5677 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 619–636. Springer, 2009.