

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Algorithm for SIS and MultiSIS problems

Igor Semaev Department of Informatics, University of Bergen, igor@ii.uib.no

August 16, 2020

#### Abstract

SIS problem has numerous applications in cryptography. Known algorithms for solving that problem are exponential in complexity. A new algorithm is suggested in this note, its complexity is sub-exponential for a range of parameters.

# 1 Introduction

Let A be any integer m ×n matrix, where m > n and q be a prime. Assume A is of rank n modulo q. Let c = (c1, . . . , cm) be an integer vector of length m and |c| = (c 2 <sup>1</sup> +. . .+c 2 m) 1/2 denote its norm (Euclidean length) and ν be a positive real. The SIS (Short Integer Solution) problem is to construct a non-zero integer row vector c of length m and norm at most ν such that cA ≡ 0 mod q. The problem of constructing several such short vectors is called MultiSIS problem.

The inhomogeneous SIS problem asks for a short vector c such that cA ≡ a mod q for a non-zero row vector a of length n. The inhomogeneous SIS problem may be reduced to a homogeneous SIS problem. Let A<sup>1</sup> = A a be a concatenation of the matrix A and the vector a. Assume one constructs a number of short solutions c<sup>1</sup> to c1A<sup>1</sup> ≡ 0 mod q with non-zero last entry. One of them may likely be c<sup>1</sup> = (c, 1) and that gives a solution to cA ≡ a mod q, or such a vector may be found as a combination of the solutions to the SIS problem.

Typical SIS problem parameters are ν ≥ p n log<sup>2</sup> q and m > n log<sup>2</sup> q, where q is bounded by a polynomial in n. The problem may be reduced to constructing short vectors in general lattices, which is considered hard, see [1]. The SIS problem has a number of applications in cryptography, see [6]. For instance, the hash function x → xA was suggested in [1].

Integer vectors c such that cA ≡ 0 mod q is a lattice of dimension m and volume q n . So all vectors of norm ≤ ν may be computed with a lattice enumeration in time mO(m) , see [3]. Alternatively, one may apply a lattice reduction algorithm. The reduction cost is 2O(m) operations according to [3]. The so-called combinatorial algorithms to solve the

{1}------------------------------------------------

SIS problem and its inhomogeneous variant, where the entries of c are 0 or 1, are surveyed in [2]. They have complexity  $2^{O(m)}$  operations. All above methods are thus exponential in complexity. In this note a new algorithm for solving SIS and MultiSIS problems is introduced. The complexity of the algorithm is sub-exponential for a range of parameters.

## 2 MultiSIS Problem

How to construct N different non-zero vectors c of norm at most  $\nu$  such that  $cA \equiv 0 \mod q$ ? The vectors generated by the rows of the matrix  $qI_m$ , where  $I_m$  denotes a unity matrix of size  $m \times m$ , are trivial solutions and not counted. We call this MultiSIS problem. Obviously, a solution to the MultiSIS problem implies a solution to the homogeneous SIS problem. That may also imply a solution to a relevant inhomogeneous problem as it is explained earlier.

The MultiSIS problem may be solved by lattice enumeration. Alternatively, one perturbs the initial basis of the lattice N times and apply a lattice reduction algorithm after each perturbation. So the overall complexity is  $N2^{O(m)}$ , though we do not know if that really solves the problem as the vectors in the reduced bases may repeat.

If  $m = o(\nu^2)$ , then the number of integer vectors c of norm at most  $\nu$  is approximately the volume of a ball of radius  $\nu$  centred at the origin. With probability  $1/q^n$  the vector c satisfies  $cA \equiv 0$ . Therefore the number of such relations is around

$$\frac{\pi^{m/2} \nu^m}{\Gamma(m/2+1) q^n} \approx \frac{(2\pi e)^{m/2}}{\sqrt{\pi m}} \left(\frac{\nu}{\sqrt{m}}\right)^m \frac{1}{q^n}$$

and should be at least N to make the problem solvable. That fits the so-called Gaussian heuristic, see [4].

According to [5], if  $\nu = O(\sqrt{m})$  the Gaussian heuristic does not generally hold. We will use a different argument still heuristic. Let  $\nu < \sqrt{m}$  and  $d = \lfloor \nu^2 \rfloor$ . For each subset  $A_{i_1}, \ldots, A_{i_r}$  of  $r \leq d$  rows of A there are  $2^r$  linear combinations  $c_1 A_{i_1} + \ldots + c_r A_{i_r}$ , where  $c_i = \pm 1$  and so  $c = (c_1, \ldots, c_r)$  is of norm  $\leq \nu$ . We do not distinguish between c and -c. So the expected number of such zero combinations is  $2^{r-1}/q^n$ . For the whole matrix the expected number of different c of norm at most  $\nu$  such that  $cA \equiv 0$  is at least  $\sum_{r=1}^{d} {m \choose r} 2^{r-1}/q^n$ . Therefore, N such relations do exist if  $\sum_{r=1}^{d} {m \choose r} 2^{r-1}/q^n \geq N$ , minding that the inequality is approximate.

## 2.1 MultiSIS Algorithm

Let  $\delta = m/n \ln q$  and  $\eta = \nu^2/n \ln q$ . In this section we present the algorithm to construct vectors c of norm at most  $\nu$  such that  $cA \equiv 0 \mod q$ . In Section 2.2 we will show that if at least one of  $\delta$  or  $\eta$  tends to infinity, then one may construct  $q^{\frac{n}{t}(1+o(1))}$  such vectors with the complexity  $q^{\frac{n}{t}(1+o(1))}$  operations, where  $t = [\log_2 \sqrt{\eta \ln \delta}] (1 + o(1))$ . The latter tends to infinity, so the complexity is sub-exponential. If both  $\delta$  and  $\eta$  are bounded, then

{2}------------------------------------------------

the complexity is represented by the same expression for some bounded t and therefore exponential. The analysis is heuristic.

Let  $d \geq 2, k < m, N$  be integer parameters such that  $\nu = d\sqrt{k}$ . We may assume that  $d = 2^t$  for an integer  $t = \log_2 d$  and n = st for an integer s. Otherwise, the algorithm below is easy to adjust. Let  $\mathfrak{m}(k)$  be the number of integer vectors of length m and of norm  $\leq \sqrt{k}$  up to a multiplier -1. It is easy to see that  $\mathfrak{m}(k) \geq \sum_{i=1}^k \binom{m}{i} 2^{i-1}$ .

- 1. Put  $\mathfrak{A}_0 = C_0 A$ , where  $C_0$  be a matrix of size  $\mathfrak{m}(k) \times m$  and each row of  $C_0$  is an integer vector of norm at most  $\sqrt{k}$ .
- 2. Let  $N_i$  for i in  $0, \ldots, t-1$  be integers such that  $N_i = q^{s(1+o(1))}$ , where  $N_0 \leq \mathfrak{m}$  and  $N_t = N$ .
- 3. For i = 0, ..., t 1 do the following. Represent  $\mathfrak{A}_i = \mathfrak{A}_{i1} | \mathfrak{A}_{i2}$  as a concatenation of two matrices, where  $\mathfrak{A}_{i1}$  is of size  $N_i \times s$  and  $\mathfrak{A}_{i2}$  is of size  $N_i \times s(t i 1)$ . As  $N_i = q^{s(1+o(1))}$  there are  $N_{i+1} = q^{s(1+o(1))}$  relations  $c \mathfrak{A}_{i1} \equiv 0$ , where c is a vector of length  $N_i$  and it has at most two non-zero entries which are  $\pm 1$ . Let  $C_{i+1}$  be a matrix of size  $N_{i+1} \times N_i$  with such rows. Equivalently, there are  $q^{s(1+o(1))}$  pairs of rows in  $\mathfrak{A}_{i1}$ , where one row differs from another by a multiplier  $\pm 1$ , and zero rows in  $\mathfrak{A}_{i1}$ . Such pairs of rows and zero rows in  $\mathfrak{A}_{i1}$  may be computed in  $N_i^{1+o(1)}$  operations by sorting. Put  $\mathfrak{A}_{i+1} = C_{i+1} \mathfrak{A}_{i2}$  and repeat the step.
- 4. The matrix  $C = C_t \dots C_1 C_0$  is of size  $N \times m$  and it satisfies  $CA \equiv 0$ . Each row of C has norm  $\leq \nu = d\sqrt{k}$ .

The rows of  $C_0$  are different and non-zero. At each step of the algorithm one may choose  $C_i$  such that the rows of  $C_i cdots C_1 cdots C_1 cdots C_2 cdots C_3$  are different. As the rows of  $C_{i+1}$  have at most two non-zero entries which are  $\pm 1$ , the rows of  $C_{i+1}C_i cdots C_0$  are all non-zero. Though we can not guarantee theoretically that all constructed vectors are different, the algorithm works well in practice.

### 2.2 Analysis of the Algorithm

The algorithm constructs  $q^{\frac{n}{t}(1+o(1))}$  integer vectors c of norm at most  $\nu$  such that  $cA \equiv 0 \mod q$  and its complexity is  $q^{\frac{n}{t}(1+o(1))}$  operations. We will define an optimal  $t = \log_2 d$ . For any input parameters  $n, q, m, \nu$  one may find t by solving numerically the system  $\mathfrak{m}(k) \geq q^{\frac{n}{t}}$  and  $\nu = 2^t \sqrt{k}$ .

Let  $\delta = m/n \ln q$  and  $\eta = \nu^2/n \ln q$  and at least one of them is an increasing function in n. We will represent t as a function of  $\delta, \eta$ . First, we find k such that  $\mathfrak{m}(k) \geq q^{\frac{n}{t}}$  for large n. One may solve a stronger inequality  $\binom{m}{k} 2^{k-1} \geq q^{\frac{n}{t}}$  instead. With the Stirling approximation to the factorial function, it is easy to see that one may take  $k = \frac{\alpha n}{t}(1+o(1))$ , where

$$\alpha = \frac{\ln q}{\ln m - \ln \ln q^{\frac{n}{t}}} = \frac{\ln q}{\ln(\delta t)}.$$

{3}------------------------------------------------

So  $k = \frac{n \ln q}{t \ln(\delta t)} (1 + o(1))$  and the equation  $\nu = d\sqrt{k}$  is equivalent to

$$\eta = \frac{4^t}{t \ln(\delta t)} (1 + o(1)). \tag{1}$$

The solution to (1) is

$$t = \log_2 \sqrt{\eta \ln \delta} (1 + o(1)).$$

Experimentally,  $t > \log_2 \sqrt{\eta \ln \delta}$  and they converges for very large parameters. The complexity of the algorithm is  $q^{\frac{n}{\log_2 \sqrt{\eta \ln \delta}}(1+o(1))}$ .

## References

- [1] M. Ajtai, Generating hard instances of lattice problems. Proceedings of the twenty-eighth annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing. ACM, 1996.
- [2] S. Bai, S. Galbraith, L. Li, D. Sheffield, Improved Combinatorial Algorithms for the Inhomogeneous Short Integer Solution Problem, J Cryptol 32, pp. 35–83 (2019)
- [3] G. Hanrot, X. Pujol and D. Stehlé, Algorithms for the Shortest and Closest Lattice Vector Problems, in IWCC 2011. LNCS 6639, Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, pp. 159–190.
- [4] P.Q. Nguyen and B. Vallée(eds), The LLL Algorithm. Survey and Applications, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2010.
- [5] Mazo, J.E., Odlyzko, A.M. Lattice points in high-dimensional spheres. Monatshefte für Mathematik 110 (1990), pp. 47–61.
- [6] C. Peikert, A decade of lattice cryptography. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2015/939, 2015.