

{0}------------------------------------------------

# On Quantum Money and Evasive Obfuscation

Mark Zhandry NTT Research mzhandry@gmail.com

#### **Abstract**

We show a black box barrier against constructing public key quantum money from obfuscation for evasive functions. As current post-quantum obfuscators based on standard assumptions are all evasive, this shows a fundamental barrier to achieving public key quantum money from standard tools. Our impossibility applies to black box schemes where (1) obfuscation queries made by the mint are classical, and (2) the verifier only makes (possibly quantum) evaluation queries, but no obfuscation queries. This class seems to capture any natural method of using obfuscation to build quantum money.

## **1 Introduction**

Wiesner's quantum money [\[Wie83\]](#page-29-0) is the original quantum cryptographic protocol, dating back to 1970 (though not published until much later). Wiesner's scheme, however, has a number of undesirable drawbacks [\[Aar09,](#page-24-0) [Lut10\]](#page-28-0). To remedy these problems, Aaronson [\[Aar09\]](#page-24-0) proposes the goal of constructing *public key* quantum money, where banknotes can be verified by *anyone*, while only the mint has the ability to generate new notes. We will henceforth use the term "quantum money" to refer to its public key variant, which in the last 15 years has become one of the central goals in the field of quantum cryptography. Unfortunately, while there have been a number of proposals for quantum money [\[Aar09,](#page-24-0) [FGH](#page-27-0)+12, [AC12,](#page-24-1) [Kan18,](#page-28-1) [Zha19,](#page-29-1) [KSS21,](#page-28-2) [KLS22,](#page-28-3) [LMZ23,](#page-28-4) [Zha24\]](#page-29-2), many of them were subsequently broken [\[LAF](#page-28-5)+10, [CPDDF](#page-26-0)+19, [Rob21,](#page-28-6) [LMZ23\]](#page-28-4), and the bulk of the ones that remain (e.g. [\[FGH](#page-27-0)+12, [Kan18,](#page-28-1) [KSS21,](#page-28-2) [LMZ23,](#page-28-4) [Zha24\]](#page-29-2)) rely on new and poorly understood computational assumptions.

The closest we have to a proof relative to standard assumptions is using obfuscation. General purpose program obfuscation, formalized by [\[BGI](#page-25-0)+01] and first constructed by [\[GGH](#page-27-1)+13], has been a powerful tool for cryptography. Since its introduction, obfuscation has enabled numerous novel applications in cryptography and more generally computer science theory (e.g. [\[SW14,](#page-29-3) [HSW14,](#page-28-7) [BZ14,](#page-26-1) [BPR15,](#page-26-2) [CHN](#page-26-3)+16, [CPR17,](#page-26-4) [GSWW22\]](#page-27-2)). In the setting of quantum money, Ben-David and Sattath [\[BDS16\]](#page-25-1) propose instantiating the hidden subspace framework of [\[AC12\]](#page-24-1) with general purpose program obfuscation. Zhandry [\[Zha19\]](#page-29-1) subsequently proves the scheme is secure assuming a notion of obfuscation called *indistinguishability obfuscation* (iO), or an even weaker form of obfuscation implied by iO referred to as subspace-hiding obfuscation. This, however, punts the analysis of quantum money security to the study of obfuscation, and while there are several candidate post-quantum iO constructions (e.g. [\[GGH15,](#page-27-3) [BGMZ18,](#page-25-2) [BDGM20,](#page-25-3) [WW21\]](#page-29-4)), they too rely on new and poorly understood computational assumptions, some of which have been challenged [\[HJL21,](#page-27-4) [JLLS23\]](#page-28-8).

{1}------------------------------------------------

The difficulty of building quantum money extends to many other related unclonable objects. For example, quantum copy protection [\[Aar09\]](#page-24-0) for either programs producing digital signatures or for programs decrypting ciphertexts of a public key encryption scheme would imply quantum money. Likewise, certain forms of software leasing [\[AL21\]](#page-25-4) imply quantum money. Essentially, any kind of unclonable object that admits public verification likely can be used to realize quantum money. As such, any attempt to build these objects would first have to build quantum money along the way.

In this work, we make progress towards justifying the difficulty of building public key quantum money by showing a *black box* impossibility for a natural class of protocols build from *evasive obfuscation*.

**The Evasive Barrier.** In a pair of beautiful concurrent works [\[GKW17,](#page-27-5) [WZ17\]](#page-29-5), it was shown how to obfuscate a class of functions called compute-and-compare (C&C) programs. These programs represent the state-of-the-art for what is achievable from standard post-quantum lattice-based assumptions, namely Learning with Errors (LWE). C&C programs are very general, encompassing many natural programs, such as pattern matching with wildcards, hyperplane membership, certain programs involving decryption functions, and more. This generality has led to a number of classical and quantum applications (e.g. [\[CVW](#page-26-5)+18a, [BKP19,](#page-25-5) [BS20,](#page-26-6) [AL21,](#page-25-4) [ABG](#page-24-2)+21, [Zha21,](#page-29-6) [CLLZ21\]](#page-26-7)). Some works [\[Tsa22,](#page-29-7) [VWW22\]](#page-29-8) even construct "Null iO", a type of obfuscation for all-zeros circuits, which includes as a special case witness encryption [\[GGSW13\]](#page-27-6). Their assumption is a plausible yet non-standard variant of LWE called "evasive LWE."

Unfortunately, C&C obfuscation, Null iO, and witness encryption only apply to sub-classes of *evasive* functions. These are (distributions over) functions where any input is negligibly likely to be accepted by the function. For example, in hyperplane membership, a random hyperplane (with random offset from the origin) of low dimension is chosen. In this case, C&C obfuscation guarantees that nothing is learned about the hyperplane. But nothing is guaranteed if, say, there were a certain point *p* and the hyperplane is chosen from a non-uniform distribution that contains *p* with noticeable probability.

That LWE seems limited to evasive functions is a well-known barrier, and is closely related to other well-known barriers. An example is the fact that LWE can be used to realize predicate encryption [\[GVW15,](#page-27-7) [WZ17\]](#page-29-5), which can be seen as an evasive form of functional encryption, while general functional encryption from LWE remains out of reach. It should be noted that obfuscation for general evasive functions is at the same time much more extensive than what is currently achievable from LWE and even its non-standard variants.

Given that obfuscation is one of the most promising routes toward convincing quantum money schemes, but techniques from standard assumptions seem limited to evasive obfuscation, it is therefore natural to ask: *can quantum money be built from obfuscation for evasive function families?*

**Possible strategies for using evasive obfuscation.** The subspace-hiding obfuscation used to achieve quantum money in [\[Zha19\]](#page-29-1) looks tantalizingly similar to the hyperplane obfuscation that can be achieved using C&C obfuscation. Indeed, both obfuscate subspaces/hyperplanes. However, the security notion is different in some important ways. Hyperplane obfuscation via C&C obfuscation must be evasive, and loses all security guarantees if a single accepting input is known. Meanwhile, subspace hiding obfuscation is inherently non-evasive. For starters, as defined in [\[Zha19\]](#page-29-1), subspace hiding obfuscation obfuscates spaces *S* that pass through the origin. These can never be evasive, 

{2}------------------------------------------------

since the origin is an accepting input. The origin can be easily excluded in order to obfuscate with C&C obfuscation, and also later work [CLLZ21] extend to cosets, which do not pass through the origin at all. But even here, the notion of subspace-hiding obfuscation is still inherently non-evasive. This is because the security model for subspace-hiding obfuscation additionally gives the adversary a description of a non-trivial subspace T of S, and requires S to still be hidden. But such T trivially allows the adversary to find accepting inputs, violating evasiveness.

On the other hand, in the actual security game for quantum money, the adversary is never given such a subspace T. Instead, T is only an artifact of the security proof in [Zha19]. This means that subspace-hiding obfuscation is potentially stronger than what is actually needed to prove security. Given how close subspace-hiding is to what can be achieved by C&C obfuscation, it is natural to wonder if a better proof strategy could avoid giving the adversary points in S, thereby allowing a security proof under evasive subspace obfuscation.

Digging deeper, while the quantum money security game does not explicitly hand out accepting inputs to S, it does give the adversary the ability to compute an accepting input to S. Indeed, the adversary is given, in addition to an obfuscation of S (and also and obfuscation of  $S^{\perp}$ ), a valid quantum money state, which is a uniform superposition over S. By measuring the money state, the adversary obtains an element in S. Likewise, the adversary can measure the money state in the Fourier basis to obtain an element in  $S^{\perp}$ . However, it does not appear possible to obtain an accepting input in both S and  $S^{\perp}$  simultaneously<sup>1</sup>. Oone may hope that this means that one of S and  $S^{\perp}$  may remain evasive.

Another direction would be to divide the subspace S into two pieces  $S_0, S_1$ , and obfuscate each piece separately. For instance, if S is a subspace of  $\mathbb{F}_2^n$ , then  $S_0, S_1$  could actually be two affine sets. The adversary can measure the banknote superposition, which gives an accepting input to  $S_0$  or  $S_1$ , violating the evasiveness of one of the spaces. But importantly, no inputs are generated for the other space. Therefore, it may seem that we can invoke evasive obfuscation for at least one of  $S_0, S_1$ .

It is also possible to move beyond subspaces, and perhaps obfuscate more complex sets S. For example, if one could find an (evasive) set S such that the Fourier transform of the uniform superposition over S has small support S', then the money state could be the uniform superposition over S, and the mint would output obfuscations of S and S'. Linear subspaces with  $S' = S^{\perp}$  are but one example of such sets. Could more general sets be obfuscated sufficiently using evasive obfuscation to get secure quantum money?

A Black Box Impossibility. In this work, we make a significant step toward answering the above in the negative, by showing a black box barrier to achieving quantum money from evasive obfuscation. In particular, approaches like those above cannot work to yield quantum money from evasive obfuscation. Our main theorem is the following:

<span id="page-2-1"></span>**Theorem 1.** There is no black box construction of quantum money from evasive obfuscation where (1) obfuscation queries made by the mint are classical, and (2) the verifier makes no obfuscation queries.

The class of quantum money schemes captured by Theorem 1 capture most natural approaches to building quantum money via obfuscation. Indeed, [AC12] has this form. Additionally, all existing

<span id="page-2-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup>Aside from the obvious point at the origin, which can be eliminated by moving to cosets.

{3}------------------------------------------------

constructions of copy protection using obfuscation [\[AL21,](#page-25-4) [ALL](#page-25-6)+21, [CLLZ21,](#page-26-7) [LLQZ22\]](#page-28-9) are also of a similar form. We give a more in-depth discussion of such schemes in Section [3](#page-6-0) below.

Our notion of evasive obfuscation also encompasses one-way functions as a special case, and so as a corollary, we also separate a natural class of quantum money protocols from one-way functions.

Our results help explain the difficulties in constructing public key quantum money, and give guidance for future attempts at building it from evasive obfuscation – including one-way functions – by showing a wide class of natural schemes that must be avoided in any attempted construction. This is only the second known barrier for public key quantum money (following [\[AHY23\]](#page-25-7)), and to the best of our knowledge the first barrier for constructing anything from evasive obfuscation, be it quantum protocols or otherwise. See Section [3](#page-6-0) for a more thorough discussion of related work and interpretation of our results.

## **2 Proof Overview**

## **2.1 How to model evasive obfuscation**

We follow the typical approach in black box separation literature, and specify oracles relative to which evasive obfuscation exists, but quantum money of a particular flavor does not. The starting point is the natural approach to providing oracles for *ideal* obfuscation: provide a random oracle O mapping programs plus random coins to bit-strings that acts as the obfuscator, and an oracle E used to evaluate the obfuscated program. E will take as input an "obfuscated program" *P*ˆ, which is just a bit-string produced by O, and an input *x*. It inverts O to obtain the original un-obfuscated program *P* such that O(*P*) = *P*ˆ, and then outputs *P*(*x*). Since we are interested in modeling quantum computation, we will allow these oracles to be accessed on quantum superpositions on inputs. It is straightforward to show that these oracles implement any reasonable notion of obfuscation, including evasive obfuscation but also the widely-used indistinguishability obfuscation (iO) or virtual black box (VBB) obfuscation, which is known to be impossible in the standard model [\[BGI](#page-25-0)+01].

The problem is that quantum money actually exists relative to this oracle! Indeed, this oracle can be used to implement the subspace membership oracles of [\[AC12\]](#page-24-1) which are shown to give rise to quantum money. In fact, it was shown by [\[Zha19\]](#page-29-1) that even iO suffices for building quantum money. So we need to ensure somehow that our oracles do not give iO.

Our solution is a simple tweak to E above. Whenever *P*(*x*) would accept, in addition to outputting 1, E also outputs the code of the original un-obfuscated program *P*. Importantly, for rejecting inputs E still outputs only 0, giving no information about *P* other than the fact that *P*(*x*) = 0. For evasive obfuscation, the adversary will never be able to find an accepting input, meaning this change to E does not affect the adversary's view. Thus the oracles remain secure for evasive programs. However, for non-evasive programs, all security is compromised since a single accepting input reveals the original program in the clear.

**Remark 1.** *Our oracles are in fact not far from what happens in the case of LWE-based obfuscators for C&C programs and Null iO [\[GKW17,](#page-27-5) [WZ17,](#page-29-5) [Tsa22,](#page-29-7) [VWW22\]](#page-29-8), and related candidates for iO based on lattices [\[GGH15,](#page-27-3) [HHSS17\]](#page-27-8). Indeed, in these constructions, an accepting input leads to certain leakage, which has been exploited in attacks [\[CGH17,](#page-26-8) [CVW18b\]](#page-27-9) to obtain information about the original program.*

{4}------------------------------------------------

As is typical in the black box separation literature, we will restrict the adversary to polynomiallymany queries to O*,* E, but we allow for unbounded computation outside the queries. This is to rule out trivial constructions that simply assume a standard-model quantum money scheme (such as one based on existing candidates for iO) and ignore the oracle. By giving the adversary unbounded power outside the oracles, all such standard-model constructions are insecure, and the only way to obtain a secure scheme is to use the given oracles. Thus this model captures schemes that actually use evasive obfuscation as their source of security. Proving an impossibility in this model thus justifies the impossibility of using evasive obfuscation to construct quantum money.

### **2.2 Our impossibility**

We now turn to actually proving that quantum money is impossible in our oracle model. Let Gen be the note generation procedure, and Ver the verifier. Per [\[AC12\]](#page-24-1), we will only consider the case of a "mini-scheme", where there is only a single banknote. That is, Gen samples a serial number *σ* and money state \$, and Ver verifies that \$ is a valid banknote with respect to serial number *σ*. The adversary is given *σ,* \$, and tries to construct two (potentially entangled) banknotes \$1*,* \$<sup>2</sup> that both pass verification with respect to *σ*.

Recall we restrict to protocols where the mint's obfuscation queries are classical, and the verifier makes no obfuscation queries. A standard argument shows we can assume the mint makes no verification queries, and the verifier only evaluates programs obfuscated by the mint. We call such schemes "respecting."

**Step 1: Measuring a random query.** Our starting point is the following: suppose Ver's queries to E place very little weight on any accepting inputs to programs queried by the mint. In this case, we can actually simulate Ver's queries to E by ourselves by simply responding to each query with reject. This will introduce some error related to the weight of accepting inputs in the queries, which is small by assumption. Thus we get an approximately correct verifier that makes no queries at all. It is easy to see that such a verifier is impossible in our model, since the adversary can use its unbounded computation to brute-force arbitrarily-many states that are accepted by the verifier.

On the other hand, if Ver's queries place significant weight on accepting inputs to programs queried by the mint, then we can measure a random query and we will find an accepting input with reasonable probability. Then we can run E on the measured query, and since E accepts, we actually learn one of the original un-obfuscated programs. If the mint only obfuscated a single program, we can again simulate Ver's queries since we now have de-obfuscated the only program and can evaluate it without making queries. As before, we can use our unbounded computation to brute-force many accepting money states.

But what if the mint obfuscates many programs, and Ver places significant weight on accepting inputs to the various different programs? For example, this occurs in our example of splitting the subspace *S* into two obfuscated spaces *S*0*, S*1. Ver will test membership in *S* by testing membership in *S*<sup>0</sup> ∪ *S*1, which involves making superposition queries to each of the spaces *S*0*, S*1.

When we measure a query, we are likely to find an accepting input — and hence the original un-obfuscated program — for *one* of the obfuscated programs. But the other programs so far will remain secure, meaning we cannot simulate Ver's queries on these programs. The problem is that our measurement has now destroyed the one money state we have. Thus, we may not be able to produce even a single valid money state from what we have, let alone two. And we cannot brute

{5}------------------------------------------------

force the state since we still have to make queries to E to evaluate the remaining secure programs, and we are query-bounded.

**Step 2: State repair.** Our solution to the above problem is to *repair* the quantum money state after measuring a random query. Specifically, we employ the quantum state repair procedure of [\[CMSZ22\]](#page-26-9). This procedure gives the following informal guarantee: suppose a state is accepted by some binary-outcome measurement *M*1, and then is fed into another multi-outcome measurement *M*2. Applying *M*<sup>2</sup> may have destroyed the state and *M*<sup>1</sup> may no longer accept, but by repairing the state using the procedure in [\[CMSZ22\]](#page-26-9) we return to a state accepted by *M*1, though it may be different than the original accepting state.

In our case, *M*<sup>1</sup> will be Ver(*σ,* ·), and *M*<sup>2</sup> will be our measurement of a random query to E. After repairing the state, we therefore have simultaneously one of the original un-obfuscated programs, but also a quantum money state that passes verification. We can therefore repeat the process, measuring a random query again, potentially getting another one of the original programs. Since there are only a polynomial number of programs, after sufficiently-many iterations of this process, we will eventually stop obtaining new programs. At this point the query weight on programs we do not have is small, meaning we can approximately simulate Ver's queries and perform the brute-force search for money states.

There are several caveats to getting the repair procedure to work here. Some will be discussed below. But here, we briefly point out that the repair procedure runs in time that grows with the number of measurement outcomes of *M*2. In particular, in our oracle setting, the number of queries the above strategy must make grows with the number of possible measurement outcomes, which must therefore be polynomial. This means we cannot naively measure the query, as the query domain contains exponentially many (obfuscated-program*,* input-to-program) pairs. However, we can take the number of possible query *responses* to actually be a polynomial: if the mint obfuscates *P* programs, the response can be 0 for a rejecting input, or 1 together with one of the *P* original un-obfuscated programs in the case of accepting inputs. Therefore, by only measuring the query response as opposed to the query itself, we obtain the information we are after (the original program) while only having polynomially-many outcomes.

When applied to our running example of splitting the space *S* into separate spaces *S*0*, S*1, the point is that it actually is true that one of the obfuscations of *S*0*, S*<sup>1</sup> may remain secure if we are only given these two obfuscations, but fails since we must give out more than obfuscations of *S*0*, S*<sup>1</sup> to have a secure scheme. In more detail, recall that by measuring the banknote (which recall is a uniform superposition over *S*), the adversary will learn an input to one of *S*0*, S*<sup>1</sup> but not both. Using our evasive obfuscation oracle, the adversary will therefore learn one of the spaces *S*0*, S*1, but not both. With only knowledge of one of *S*0*, S*1, the adversary is unable to produce two valid banknotes. The problem is that in [\[AC12\]](#page-24-1), having a membership tester for *S* (which in our case is obtained by membership testing for *S*0*, S*1) is not enough to give a secure quantum money scheme. Instead, the verifier also needs to be able to check membership in the dual space *S* <sup>⊥</sup> in order to give a secure scheme. But once we give out any means to verify banknotes securely (say through obfuscating *S* <sup>⊥</sup> or other means), we can run state repair to get back to a valid banknote. Once we have a valid banknote, we can measure again, and with reasonable probability we will learn the other space. Once we learn both *S*0*, S*1, we therefore know *S* and can easily forge new banknotes. Observe that this argument is very general, as it did not actually use that *S*0*, S*<sup>1</sup> or *S* ⊥ were subspaces, or any details about how verification works.

{6}------------------------------------------------

**Compatible verifiers.** Besides requiring *M*<sup>2</sup> to have polynomially-many outcomes, there are other requirements we need to be aware of to get state repair from [\[CMSZ22\]](#page-26-9) to work. First, we need that *M*<sup>1</sup> — that is, Ver — is projective, or at least a relaxation called *almost projective*. While many quantum money schemes such as [\[AC12\]](#page-24-1) are indeed projective, this is not a normal requirement to be a valid money scheme. Using dilation, we can assume Ver is projective over the joint system of the money state and some ancilla qubits that are initialized to |0⟩. We could try defining the money state as this joint system, but the naive solution may not be secure: an adversary may be able to fool Ver into accepting bad money states if those states have the ancilla qubit set to something other than |0⟩. After all, Ver is only guaranteed to work correctly when the ancilla is initialized |0⟩, but an adversary that supplies the ancilla can initialize it to anything. Of course, we could have Ver first perform a measurement to check that the ancilla are |0⟩, but now Ver is not projective any more since measuring for |0⟩ and evaluating Ver might be incompatible measurements.

A more subtle issue is that state repair requires *M*<sup>2</sup> to be projective as well, meaning measuring Ver's queries needs to be projective. In general, this is not the case. Indeed, the queries will be written to some ancilla qubits in order to be sent to the oracle. One can try to un-compute the query post-measurement by running the verifier in reverse, but because of the measurement, the ancilla in general will remain, and may be entangled with the money state. This means the measurement cannot be projective on the money state itself. The measurement will be projective on the joint system including the ancilla, but in this case we run into the issue above that Ver could be fooled by initializing a bad ancilla.

Our solution is to view Ver as a projective measurement over the joint system of money state and ancilla, but carefully re-design Ver to ensure that it remains secure. Essentially, Ver now performs a mixture of two projective measurements: the original verification viewed as a projection over the joint system, and the projection of the ancilla onto |0⟩. By using techniques developed by [\[MW04,](#page-28-10) [Zha20\]](#page-29-9), we can implement a measurement that is a weighted average of both measurements. Importantly, by carefully choosing the relative weights of the two measurements, we can enforce that any state which passes our new verification has almost all its mass on states accepted by each of the two projections. This allows us to show that our new verifier is both correct and secure. The resulting verifier is also *almost* projective [\[Zha20\]](#page-29-9), which is sufficient for state repair.

This solution also resolves the issue of *M*<sup>2</sup> being projective: *M*<sup>2</sup> considered as a measurement over the joint system including the ancilla is projective.

**Remark 2.** *An interesting consequence is that, once the verifier is (almost) projective, we can amplify correctness without further blowing up the note size: basically, when generating a note, check if the note is accepted by verification, and if not, discard the note and start over. This gives an alternative means to amplify correctness of weakly correct schemes, which may be more efficient in terms of storage requirements than the naive solution of parallel repetition.*

## <span id="page-6-0"></span>**3 Discussion, Other Related Work, and Open Questions**

**Additional Motivation: black box separations for quantum protocols.** Black box separations are a useful tool for understanding the (in)feasibility of constructing certain objects. Besides helping to explain why the community has not been able to give better constructions, black box separations also guide future research efforts by showing what types of constructions *cannot* work. 

{7}------------------------------------------------

In our case, our results show that any quantum money construction from evasive obfuscation must either be non-respecting or make non-black-box use of the obfuscator.

While numerous separations are known in the classical setting, the literature on black box separations for *quantum* protocols is relatively sparse, with only a few prior results [\[HY20,](#page-28-11) [ACC](#page-25-8)+22, [CLM23,](#page-26-10) [AHY23\]](#page-25-7). As such, there are relatively few known techniques for proving such separations.

At a technical level, a common classical technique for black box separations (and the general approach we employ in our separation) is to run one or more of the cryptographic algorithms several times, view the queries the algorithms make to their oracles, then use this information in some way. For example, many separations will use this information to try to "compile out" the use of the oracle from the algorithm, by using the information to simulate the oracle responses. Unfortunately, viewing adversary's queries, and in particular the compiling out approach, can be difficult to adapt to the quantum setting. The reason is that, if the algorithm makes quantum queries to the oracle, then it is impossible to observe the query without perturbing the algorithm's state. Once even a small amount of information is extracted from the queries, this perturbation may make it hard or impossible to continue running the algorithm.

Perhaps because of challenges like these, existing quantum separations have been limited to separating from relatively simple objects like one-way functions or one-way permutations.

Our work demonstrates how quantum state repair can, at least in certain cases, be used to compile out oracle queries from quantum protocols. By using our new technique, we are able to separate quantum money from evasive obfuscation, a very powerful and structured object. Our ideas therefore further the set of techniques available for proving separations in the quantum setting.

**On our restricted class of protocols.** We briefly discuss our restrictions on protocols handled by Theorem [1,](#page-2-1) by arguing that such protocols capture essentially any natural construction using obfuscation, including all known obfuscation-based approaches to quantum money. First, it is unclear what use the verifier would have in actually obfuscating programs, since the point of obfuscating a program is to hide something, but the verifier does not need to hide anything from itself. So it seems natural verifiers would not make use of the obfuscation functionality, just the evaluation functionality. It is also unclear what the mint would accomplish by obfuscating a superposition of programs: since obfuscated programs are random strings, it is possible to show that the superposition of obfuscated programs is indistinguishable from being fully measured. In this case, we might as well have just measured the query in the first place, meaning only classical queries are required.

There may be some room to do non-trivial things by having the mint only produce a few bits of an obfuscated program. In this case, superpositions are *dis*tinguishable from measured. However, it is impossible to evaluate a program from just a few bits of its description, so it is unclear how to use program obfuscation in this way.

**Implications.** Our result separates a natural class of quantum money schemes from evasive obfuscation. This captures natural approaches to adapt [\[AC12\]](#page-24-1) to the evasive setting. It also captures certain natural attempts to build quantum money from one-way functions. Indeed, any evasive obfuscator for, say, point functions is in particular trivially a one-way function. Applying our impossibility rules out construction of quantum money from a one-way function *f*, where the mint only makes classical queries to *f*, and the verifier cannot evaluate *f*, but can instead submit (superpositions of) pairs (*x, y*), to which it receives in response a (superposition of) bits indicating 

{8}------------------------------------------------

if *y* = *f*(*x*).

More generally, our impossibility seems to capture natural constructions involving the evasive obfuscation of *non-cryptographic* functions. Care must be taken, however, when trying to interpret our results when applying evasive obfuscation to *cryptographic* programs. The motivation for considering cryptographic programs is that evasive obfuscation for such programs yields a number of powerful cryptographic objects, and we may hope to additionally get a separation from those objects through our impossibility. For example, evasive obfuscation applied to a one-way function (as opposed to considering the evasive obfuscator *as* the one-way function) gives public key encryption. We may therefore hope to conclude that there is no black box construction of quantum money from public key encryption. The problem is that our proof works in a model where we allow the adversary to be computationally unbounded. While we model the evasive obfuscator as an oracle and restrict the number of queries, any other cryptographic object that we may apply the evasive obfuscator to will be trivially broken in our model.

We could try to fix this issue by modeling the supposed cryptographic object as an oracle, and bound the queries to the oracle. This will require updating our model of evasive obfuscation to work with query-aided programs that may make queries to the cryptographic object. For example, we could model a one-way function by a random oracle, and then allow the evasive obfuscator to operate on programs that make random oracle queries. However, our impossibility will run the verifier for the quantum money scheme an exponential number of times. While we take care to first remove evasive obfuscation queries from the verifier (so that the impossibility only needs a polynomial number of queries to the evasive obfuscator), if the original verifier made any queries to the oracle implementing the additional cryptographic object, our impossibility will end up making an exponential number of queries to the object. Therefore, we need to restrict to protocols where the verifier makes no queries to the additional cryptographic object.

We now consider the application to public key encryption. Evasive obfuscation yields public key encryption as follows: the secret key is an input *x* to a one-way function *f*, and the public key is the output *y* = *f*(*x*). The ciphertext is an obfuscation of the program that takes as input a candidate secret key *x* ′ , and outputs the message *m* if and only if *f*(*x* ′ ) = *y*. As a consequence of the above discussion, we get an impossibility of constructing quantum money from public key encryption, subject to the following restrictions:

- The mint only encrypts using classical keys/messages/randomness.
- Verification *cannot* run key generation (as it would require making queries to *f*) and *cannot* encrypt messages (as it would require obfuscating programs).

While this gives *some* separation from public key encryption, it is unclear how meaningful it may be.

**Existing black box separations for quantum money.** The only prior black box separation for quantum money is the recent work of [\[AHY23\]](#page-25-7). That work shows it is impossible to build a black box construction of quantum money from random oracles, assuming that verification makes only classical queries to the underlying hash function. In particular, this shows that it is impossible to build quantum money of this form from collision resistance or one-way functions, the latter which can be seen as a special case of evasive obfuscation for point functions. Thus, our work complements theirs by offering more barriers to constructing quantum money from standard assumptions.

{9}------------------------------------------------

Other approaches to quantum money from lattices. Obfuscation is not the only approach to building quantum money. In particular, [Zha19] discusses a potential approach to building quantum money from lattice assumptions by constructing hash functions that are not *collapsing* [Unr16]. The recent candidate quantum money scheme of [KLS22] can also be seen as following this high-level idea. Unfortunately, [LZ19] show that Ajtai's [Ajt96] function based on lattices *is* collapsing. More recently, [LMZ23] show that a wide class of lattice-based quantum money schemes based on this approach cannot be secure. Combined with our work, this shows that all known approaches to building quantum money from tools implied by standard lattices are unlikely to work.

## 4 Preliminaries

### 4.1 Basic Quantum Preliminaries

Much of this section is taken almost verbatim from [CMSZ22]. A (pure) quantum state is a vector  $|\psi\rangle$  in a complex Hilbert space  $\mathcal{H}$  with  $||\psi\rangle|| = 1$ ; in this work,  $\mathcal{H}$  is finite-dimensional. We denote by  $\mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H})$  the space of Hermitian operators on  $\mathcal{H}$ . A density matrix is a positive semi-definite operator  $\boldsymbol{\rho} \in \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H})$  with  $\mathsf{Tr}(\boldsymbol{\rho}) = 1$ . A density matrix represents a probabilistic mixture of pure states (a mixed state); the density matrix corresponding to the pure state  $|\psi\rangle$  is  $|\psi\rangle\langle\psi|$ . Typically we divide a Hilbert space into registers, e.g.  $\mathcal{H} = \mathcal{H}_1 \otimes \mathcal{H}_2$ . We sometimes write, e.g.,  $\boldsymbol{\rho}^{\mathcal{H}_1}$  to specify that  $\boldsymbol{\rho} \in \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H}_1)$ .

A unitary operation is a complex square matrix U such that  $UU^{\dagger} = \mathbf{I}$ . The operation U transforms the pure state  $|\psi\rangle$  to the pure state  $U|\psi\rangle$ , and the density matrix  $\boldsymbol{\rho}$  to the density matrix  $U\boldsymbol{\rho}U^{\dagger}$ .

A projector P is a Hermitian operator  $(P^{\dagger} = P)$  such that  $P^2 = P$ . A projective measurement is a collection of projectors  $\mathbf{P} = (P_i)_{i \in S}$  such that  $\sum_{i \in S} P_i = \mathbf{I}$ . This implies that  $P_i P_j = 0$  for distinct i and j in S. The application of  $\mathbf{P}$  to a pure state  $|\psi\rangle$  yields outcome  $i \in S$  with probability  $p_i = ||P_i|\psi\rangle||^2$ ; in this case the post-measurement state is  $|\psi_i\rangle = P_i|\psi\rangle/\sqrt{p_i}$ . We refer to the post-measurement state  $|\psi_i\rangle$  as the result of applying  $\mathbf{P}$  to  $|\psi\rangle$  and post-selecting (conditioning) on outcome i. A state  $|\psi\rangle$  is an eigenstate of  $\mathbf{P}$  if it is an eigenstate of every  $P_i$ .

A two-outcome projective measurement is called a binary projective measurement, and is written as  $\mathbf{P} = (P, \mathbf{I} - P)$ , where P is associated with the outcome 1, and  $\mathbf{I} - P$  with the outcome 0.

General (non-unitary) evolution of a quantum state can be represented via a *completely-positive* trace-preserving (CPTP) map  $T: \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H}) \to \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H}')$ . We omit the precise definition of these maps in this work; we only use the facts that they are trace-preserving (for every  $\boldsymbol{\rho} \in \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H})$  it holds that  $\mathsf{Tr}(T(\boldsymbol{\rho})) = \mathsf{Tr}(\boldsymbol{\rho})$ ) and linear.

For Hilbert spaces  $\mathcal{A}, \mathcal{B}$  the partial trace over  $\mathcal{B}$  is the unique CPTP map  $\mathsf{Tr}_{\mathcal{B}} \colon \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{A} \otimes \mathcal{B}) \to \mathbf{H}(\mathcal{A})$  such that  $\mathsf{Tr}_{\mathcal{B}}(\boldsymbol{\rho}_A \otimes \boldsymbol{\rho}_B) = \mathsf{Tr}(\boldsymbol{\rho}_B)\boldsymbol{\rho}_A$  for every  $\boldsymbol{\rho}_A \in \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{A})$  and  $\boldsymbol{\rho}_B \in \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{B})$ .

For every CPTP map  $T: \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H}) \to \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H})$  there exists a unitary dilation U that operates on an expanded Hilbert space  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{K}$ , so that  $T(\boldsymbol{\rho}) = \mathsf{Tr}_{\mathcal{K}}(U(\boldsymbol{\rho} \otimes |0\rangle\langle 0|^{\mathcal{K}})U^{\dagger})$ . This is not necessarily unique; however, if T is described as a circuit then there is a dilation  $U_T$  represented by a circuit of size O(|T|).

A general measurement is a CPTP map  $\mathbf{M} \colon \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H}) \to \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{O})$ , where  $\mathcal{O}$  is an ancilla register holding a classical outcome. Specifically, given measurement operators  $\{M_i\}_{i=1}^N$  such that  $\sum_{i=1}^N M_i M_i^{\dagger} = \mathbf{I}$  and a basis  $\{|i\rangle\}_{i=1}^N$  for  $\mathcal{O}$ ,  $\mathbf{M}(\boldsymbol{\rho}) = \sum_{i=1}^N (M_i \boldsymbol{\rho} M_i^{\dagger} \otimes |i\rangle\langle i|^{\mathcal{O}})$ . We sometimes implicitly discard the outcome register. A projective measurement is a general measurement where

{10}------------------------------------------------

the  $M_i$  are projectors. A measurement induces a probability distribution over its outcomes given by  $\Pr[i] = \mathsf{Tr}(|i\rangle\langle i|^{\mathcal{O}}\mathbf{M}(\boldsymbol{\rho}));$  we denote sampling from this distribution by  $i \leftarrow \mathbf{M}(\boldsymbol{\rho})$ .

The trace distance between states  $\rho$ ,  $\rho'$ , denoted  $d(\rho, \rho')$ , and is defined as  $\frac{1}{2} \text{Tr}(\sqrt{(\rho - \rho')^2})$ . The trace distance is contractive under CPTP maps (for any CPTP map T,  $d(T(\rho), T(\rho')) \leq d(\rho, \rho')$ ). It follows that for any measurement  $\mathbf{M}$ , the statistical distance between the distributions  $\mathbf{M}(\rho)$  and  $\mathbf{M}(\rho')$  is bounded by  $d(\rho, \rho')$ .

We have the following *gentle measurement lemma*, which bounds how much a state is disturbed by applying a measurement whose outcome is almost certain.

**Lemma 2** (Gentle Measurement [Win99]). Let  $\rho \in \mathbf{S}(\mathcal{H})$  and  $\mathbf{P} = (\Pi, \mathbf{I} - \Pi)$  be a binary projective measurement on  $\mathcal{H}$  such that  $\mathsf{Tr}(\Pi \rho) \geq 1 - \delta$ . Let

$$\rho' = \frac{\Pi\rho\Pi}{\mathsf{Tr}(\Pi\rho)}$$

be the state after applying **P** to  $\rho$  and post-selecting on obtaining outcome 1. Then

$$d(\rho, \rho') \le 2\sqrt{\delta}$$
.

Quantum algorithms. In this work, a quantum algorithm is a quantum circuit built from some universal quantum gate set. We will usually consider the Hilbert space for a quantum algorithm as the product of three registers  $\mathcal{H}_{in} \times \mathcal{H}_{out} \times \mathcal{H}_{work}$ . Here, input x is mapped to  $|x\rangle \in \mathcal{H}_{in}$  where  $\{|x\rangle\}$  is some basis for  $\mathcal{H}_{in}$ , the output of the algorithm is obtained by measuring  $\mathcal{H}_{out}$  in some basis, and  $\mathcal{H}_{work}$  is an ancilla register used as work space.

One typically considers the universal gate set as being unitary, giving unitary algorithms. We can also consider algorithms with non-unitary gate sets, such as flipping random coins or making measurements. In this case, the algorithms are non-unitary, and we say they are *probabilistic*.

**Black-box access** A circuit C with black-box access to a unitary U, denoted  $C^U$ , is a standard quantum circuit with special gates that act as U and  $U^{\dagger}$ . We also use  $C^T$  to denote black-box access to a map T, which we interpret as  $C^{U_T}$  for a unitary dilation  $U_T$  of T; all of our results are independent of the choice of dilation. This allows, for example, the "partial application" of a projective measurement, and the implementation of a general measurement via a projective measurement on a larger space.

We model black-box (quantum) access to classical functions in the usual way: we make the classical function  $f: \mathcal{X} \to \mathcal{Y}$  unitary by having it act on registers  $\mathcal{H}_{in} \times \mathcal{H}_{out}$  by applying the map  $|x,y\rangle \mapsto |x,y\oplus f(x)\rangle$ . We will slightly abuse notation and write programs having black box access to such a unitary as  $C^f$ .

Query weights and switching oracles. Consider an algorithm  $\mathcal{A}^f$  making queries to a classical function f. During the ith query, the joint state of  $\mathcal{A}$  and the query has the form  $\sum_{x,y,z} \alpha_{x,y,z} | x,y,z \rangle$ , where z is the state of  $\mathcal{A}$ . Let  $w_i(x) = \sum_{y,z} |\alpha_{x,y,z}|^2$ .  $w_i(x)$  is then the "query weight" of x in the ith query to f. Let  $w(x) = \sum_i w_i(x)$  where the sum ranges over all queries. w(x) is then the "total query weight" of x. For a set S, we let  $w(S) = \sum_{x \in S} w(x)$ , which we call the total query weight of S. For a probabilistic (non-unitary)  $\mathcal{A}$ , we define  $w_i(x), w(x), w(S)$  as the expectation of the query weight over the randomness of  $\mathcal{A}$ .

{11}------------------------------------------------

Another way to think of query weight is as follows: run  $\mathcal{A}$  to query i, and measure  $\mathcal{A}$ 's state, outputting x. The probability of obtaining a given x is exactly  $w_i(x)$ . If i is chosen uniformly in [q], then the probability of obtaining x is w(x)/q. The following result is paraphrased from [BBBV97]:

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Lemma 3** ([BBBV97] Theorems 3.1 and 3.3). Let  $\mathcal{A}^f$  be an algorithm making q queries to a function f. Let f' be another function, and S the set of points x such that  $f(x) \neq f'(x)$ . Suppose that the total query weight of  $\mathcal{A}^f$  on S is at most  $\epsilon$ . Then  $|\Pr[\mathcal{A}^f() = 1] - \Pr[\mathcal{A}^{f'}() = 1]| \leq O(\sqrt{q\epsilon})$ .

[BBBV97] prove only the case of unitary algorithms, but the unitary case easy implies the probabilistic case via linearity of expectation and the concavity of  $\sqrt{}$ . We also note a simple corollary:

<span id="page-11-2"></span>Corollary 4. Let  $\mathcal{A}^f$  be an algorithm making q queries to a function f. Let  $\mathcal{A}^f$  be an algorithm making q queries to a function f. Let f' be another function, and S the set of points x such that  $f(x) \neq f'(x)$ . Suppose that the total query weight of  $\mathcal{A}^f$  on S is at most  $\epsilon$ . Then the total query weight of  $\mathcal{A}^{f'}$  on S is at most  $O(\sqrt{q^3\epsilon})$ 

Proof. Let  $\mathcal{B}^f$  be the algorithm which runs  $\mathcal{A}$ , samples a random  $i \in [q]$ , measures the *i*th query to obtain x, and outputs 1 if and only if  $x \in S$ . Then  $\Pr[\mathcal{B}^f() = 1]$  is exactly  $w(S)/q = \epsilon/q$ . Meanwhile  $\Pr[\mathcal{B}^{f'}() = 1]$  is exactly w'(S)/q where w' is the total query weight of S in  $\mathcal{B}^{f'}$ . By Lemma 3 we know that  $|w(S)/q - w'(S)/q| \leq O(\sqrt{q\epsilon})$ , meaning  $w'(S) \leq w(S) + q \times O(\sqrt{q\epsilon}) = O(\sqrt{q^3\epsilon})$ 

Almost Projective Measurements. We state a property of general measurements due to [Zha20] that captures when a measurement is "close" to being projective, in the sense that sequential applications of the measurement yield similar outcomes.

**Definition 5.** A real-valued measurement  $\mathbf{M} = (M_p)_p$  is  $(\epsilon, \delta)$ -almost projective if applying  $\mathbf{M}$  twice in a row to a register  $\mathcal{H}$  (initially containing any state  $\boldsymbol{\rho}$ ) produces measurement outcomes p, p' where  $\Pr[|p - p'| \le \epsilon] \ge 1 - \delta$ .

Quantum State Repair. We now recall quantum state repair from [CMSZ22].

<span id="page-11-1"></span>**Lemma 6** ([CMSZ22], Lemma 4.10). Given a projective measurement  $\mathbf{P}$  on register  $\mathcal{H}$  that has outcomes in set S of size N, an  $(\epsilon, \delta)$ -almost projective measurement  $\mathbf{M}$  on  $\mathcal{H}$ , and  $T \in \mathbb{N}, s \in S, p \in [0, 1]$ , there exists a procedure  $\mathsf{QRepair}_{T, p, s}^{\mathbf{M}, \mathbf{P}}$  on  $\mathcal{H}$  such that:

- (State is repaired with respect to M) Consider applying the following operations to register  $\mathcal{H}$  initially containing state  $\boldsymbol{\rho}$ :
  - 1. First apply M to obtain  $p \in [0,1]$ ,
  - 2. Then apply **P** to obtain outcome  $s \in S$ ,
  - 3. Then apply QRepair $_{T,p,s}^{\mathbf{M},\mathbf{P}}$ ,
  - 4. And finally, apply M once more to obtain  $p' \in [0, 1]$ .

Then 
$$\Pr[|p - p'| > 2\epsilon] \le N\delta + N/T + 4\sqrt{\delta}$$
.

• (Efficiency) The expected total number of calls that QRepair makes to  ${\bf M}$  and  ${\bf P}$  is at most  $N+4T\sqrt{\delta}$ .

{12}------------------------------------------------

In other words, since  $\mathbf{M}$  is almost projective, applying  $\mathbf{M}$  twice in a row will give outcomes p, p' that are close. However, if  $\mathbf{P}$  is applied in between these two measurements, there are no more guarantees on the closeness of p, p'. However, by applying  $\mathsf{QRepair}$  before the second application of  $\mathbf{M}$ , we can once again ensure closeness of p, p'.

Mixtures of Projective Measurements. The following is taken from [Zha20]. We consider the following abstract setup. We have a collection  $\mathcal{P} = \{\mathcal{P}_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{I}}$  of binary outcome projective measurements  $\mathcal{P}_i = (P_i, Q_i)$  over the same Hilbert space  $\mathcal{H}$ . Here,  $P_i$  corresponds to output 0, and  $Q_i$  corresponds to output 1. We will assume we can efficiently measure the  $\mathcal{P}_i$  for superpositions of i, meaning we can efficiently perform the following projective measurement over  $\mathcal{I} \otimes \mathcal{H}$ :

$$\left(\sum_{i}|i\rangle\langle i|\otimes P_{i}\;,\;\sum_{i}|i\rangle\langle i|\otimes Q_{i}\right) \tag{1}$$

Here, we call  $\mathcal{P}$  a collection of projective measurements, and call  $\mathcal{I}$  the control. For a distribution D over  $\mathcal{I}$ , let  $\mathcal{P}_D$  be the POVM which samples a random  $i \leftarrow D$ , applies the measurement  $\mathcal{P}_i$ , and outputs the resulting bit. We call  $\mathcal{P}_D$  a mixture of projective measurements. The POVM is given by the matrices  $(P_D, Q_D)$  where

$$P = \sum_{i \in \mathcal{I}} \Pr[i \leftarrow D] P_i$$
 and  $Q = \sum_{i \in \mathcal{I}} \Pr[i \leftarrow D] Q_i$ 

Next, for  $a \in \mathbb{R}$  and interval  $[b,c] \subseteq \mathbb{R}$ , denote the distance between a and [b,c] as  $|a-[b,c]| := \min_{x \in [b,c]} |a-x|$ . For  $a \in [b,c]$ , the distance is 0 and for  $a \notin [b,c]$ , the distance is  $\max(a-c,b-a)$ . Let  $D_0, D_1$  be two distributions over  $\mathbb{R}$ , with cumulative density functions  $f_0, f_1$ , respectively. Let  $\epsilon \in \mathbb{R}$ . The Shift distance with parameter  $\epsilon$  is defined as:

$$\Delta_{\epsilon}(D_0, D_1) := \sup_{x \in \mathbb{R}} |f_0(x) - [f_1(x - \epsilon), f_1(x + \epsilon)]|$$

Let  $\mathbf{M} = (M_i)_{i \in \mathcal{I}}$  and  $\mathbf{N} = (N_j)_{j \in \mathcal{J}}$  be real-valued quantum measurements over the same quantum system  $\mathcal{H}$ . The shift distance between  $\mathbf{M}, \mathbf{N}$ , denoted  $\Delta_{\epsilon}(\mathbf{M}, \mathbf{N})$  is defined as

$$\Delta_{\epsilon}(\mathbf{M}, \mathbf{N}) := \sup_{|\psi\rangle} \Delta_{\epsilon}(|\mathbf{M}(|\psi\rangle), |\mathbf{N}(|\psi\rangle))$$

Now, if  $\mathcal{P}_D = (P_D, Q_D)$  is a mixture of projective measurements, we note that  $Q_D = \mathbf{I} - P_D$ , and therefore  $P_D, Q_D$  commute. In this case,  $\mathcal{P}_D$  has a projective implementation, denoted  $\mathsf{ProjImp}(\mathcal{P}_D)$ , which is defined as follows. Let S be the set of eigenvalues of  $P_D$ , and  $R_i$  for i the projectors onto the associated eigenspaces. Then  $\mathsf{ProjImp}(\mathcal{P}_D)$  is the projective measurement  $(P_i)_{i \in S}$ . Note that  $S \subseteq [0,1]$ . Also note that applying  $\mathcal{P}_D$  is equivalent to the following: first apply  $\mathsf{ProjImp}(\mathcal{P}_D)$  to obtain outcome p, then interpret p as a probability and output 1 with probability p.

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Lemma 7** ([Zha20], Theorem 6.2). For any  $\epsilon, \delta, \mathcal{P}, D$ , there exists an algorithm  $\mathsf{API}_{\epsilon,\delta}^{\mathcal{P},D}$  operating on  $\mathcal{H}$  and making quantum queries to  $\mathcal{P}, D$  which additionally outputs a number in some set  $S \subseteq [0,1]$  such that:

- There is a function  $R = \mathsf{poly}(1/\epsilon, \log(1/\delta))$  such that the expected number of calls  $\mathsf{API}_{\epsilon,\delta}^{\mathcal{P},D}$  makes to  $\mathcal{P}$  and D, the running time of  $\mathsf{API}_{\epsilon,\delta}^{\mathcal{P},D}$ , and |S| are all bounded by R.
- $\mathsf{API}^{\mathcal{P},D}_{\epsilon,\delta}$  is  $(\epsilon,\delta)$ -almost projective.
- $\Delta_{\epsilon}(\mathsf{API}^{\mathcal{P},D}_{\epsilon,\delta},\mathsf{ProjImp}(\mathcal{P}_D)) \leq \delta.$

{13}------------------------------------------------

### **4.2 Cryptographic Notions**

Let *λ* be a security parameter. All quantities below will be implicit functions of *λ*. When we say "polynomial" or "negligible", we mean polynomial or negligible in *λ*.

#### **4.2.1 Quantum Money**

We now define what a quantum money scheme. As shown by [\[AC12\]](#page-24-1), it suffices to consider "minischemes", where there is only a single banknote. A quantum money scheme is a pair of algorithms:

- Gen() samples a classical serial number *σ* and a quantum state \$.
- Ver(*σ,* \$) outputs a bit 0 or 1.

**Correctness.** We define correctness. Usually one considers negligible correctness error, but in this work it will be convenient to consider relaxed forms of correctness where an honest banknote may fail to verify with non-negligible but still bounded probability.

**Definition 8.** *A quantum money scheme* (Gen*,* Ver) *is c*-correct *if* Pr[Ver(Gen())] ≥ *c.* (Gen*,* Ver) *is* correct *if it is c-correct for some c such that* 1 − *c is negligible.*

**Security.** We now define security. Usually one considers negligible security, but in this work it will be convenient to consider relaxed forms of security where an adversary may forge with non-negligible but still bounded probability.

<span id="page-13-0"></span>**Definition 9.** *A quantum money scheme* (Gen*,* Ver) *is ϵ-secure if, for all quantum polynomial-time oracle algorithms* A*,* A *wins the following game with probability at most ϵ:*

- *Run* (*σ,* \$) ← Gen()*.*
- *Run ρ*1*,*<sup>2</sup> ← A(*σ,* \$)*, where ρ*1*,*<sup>2</sup> *is a joint state over registers* H1*,* H2*.*
- *Apply* Ver(*σ,* ·) *twice, once each to* H1*,* H2*, to get bits b*1*, b*2*.*
- A *wins if b*<sup>1</sup> = *b*<sup>2</sup> = 1*.*

(Gen*,* Ver) *is* secure *if it is ϵ-secure for some negligible ϵ.*

## **4.2.2 Evasive Obfuscation**

We now define evasive obfuscation. There are many possible notions of security for evasive obfuscation, as explored by [\[BBC](#page-25-11)+14]. Our separation will apply to any reasonable notion, but for concreteness we focus on only one definition, a composable and auxiliary-input version of inputhiding obfuscation. We first define evasive circuits.

Let C be a family of circuits with domain {0*,* 1} *<sup>n</sup>* and range {0*,* 1} such that log |C| is polynomial.

**Definition 10** (Evasive Distribution of Circuit Tuples)**.** *A distribution* D *over* C *<sup>s</sup>* × {0*,* 1} ∗ *is* evasive *with auxiliary input if, for any QPT* A*, there exists a negligible function* negl *such that* Pr[∃*i, Ci*(A(aux)) = 1 : (*C*1*,* · · · *, Cs,* aux) ← D] ≤ negl*.*

{14}------------------------------------------------

**Definition 11.** A composable input-hiding obfuscator for the class of circuits C is a pair of probabilistic polynomial time algorithms Obf, Eval with the following properties:

- Correctness. There exists a negligible function negl such that, for any circuit  $C \in \mathcal{C}$  and any input  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$ ,  $\Pr[\mathsf{Eval}(\hat{C},x) = C(x) : \hat{C} \leftarrow \mathsf{Obf}(C)] \geq 1 \mathsf{negl}$ , where the probability is over the random choice of C and the randomness of  $\mathsf{Obf}$ ,
- Composable Input-hiding (with auxiliary input). For any evasive distribution over circuit tuples  $\mathcal{D}$ , any QPT oracle-aided adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , and any polynomial  $\ell$ , there exists a negligible negl such that for any  $i \in [s]$ ,  $\Pr\left[C_i(\mathcal{A}(\hat{C}_1, \dots, \hat{C}_s, \mathsf{aux})) = 1 : \bigcap_{\hat{C}_j \leftarrow \mathsf{Obf}(C_j)}^{(C_1, \dots, C_s, \mathsf{aux}) \leftarrow \mathcal{D}}\right] \leq \mathsf{negl}$ .

The usual notion of input-hiding evasive obfuscation corresponds to the restriction to s=1 and aux being empty. Thus our notion is a significant generalization. This makes our separation stronger.

## <span id="page-14-1"></span>5 The Model

Let  $n = n(\lambda)$ ,  $t = t(\lambda)$ ,  $w = w(\lambda)$  be polynomials, and let  $\mathcal{C} = (\mathcal{C}_{\lambda})_{\lambda}$  be any family of circuits such that  $\log |\mathcal{C}_{\lambda}|$  is polynomial. From now on, we will drop the security parameter  $\lambda$ , leaving it implicit as with our cryptographic definitions. Assume  $w \geq t + \log_2 |\mathcal{C}|$ . Consider the following oracles:

- $\mathcal{O}: \mathcal{C} \times \{0,1\}^t \to \{0,1\}^w$  is a random injection. Here,  $\mathcal{O}$  will play the role of obfuscator, with the input  $r \in \{0,1\}^t$  being the random coins of the obfuscator. The outputs  $\hat{C} \in \{0,1\}^w$  will therefore play the role of obfuscated program
- $\mathcal{E}: \{0,1\}^w \times \{0,1\}^n \to \mathcal{C} \cup \{\bot\}$  for special symbol  $\bot$ .  $\mathcal{E}$  is defined defined as follows. On input  $(\hat{C},x) \in \{0,1\}^w \times \{0,1\}^n$ , first check if  $\hat{C}$  is in the image of  $\mathcal{O}$ . If not, output  $\bot$ . Otherwise, run  $(C,r) \leftarrow \mathcal{O}^{-1}(\hat{C})$  and compute b = C(x). If b = 1, output C; otherwise output  $\bot$ .  $\mathcal{E}$  plays the role of evaluation algorithm for the obfuscator. Note that the value of b can be inferred from the output of  $\mathcal{E}$ .

**Definition 12.** A quantum polynomial time (QPT) algorithm in our model is a quantum oracle algorithm  $\mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O},\mathcal{E}}$  that makes polynomially-many queries to  $\mathcal{O},\mathcal{E}$ , but may have unbounded computation outside the oracle.

 $\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}$  give evasive obfuscation for the class  $\mathcal{C}$ . We discuss how the oracles above give obfuscation for evasive circuits. The oracles will give evasive obfuscation for any meaningful notion, but for concreteness we show that they give our notion of composable input-hiding.

<span id="page-14-0"></span>**Theorem 13.** For any t, w such that  $t = \omega(\log \lambda)$  and  $w \ge t + \log_2 |\mathcal{C}| + \omega(\log \lambda)$ , the obfuscator  $\mathsf{Obf} = \mathcal{O}$ ,  $\mathsf{Eval} = \mathcal{E}$  is a composable input-hiding obfuscator for  $\mathcal{C}$ .

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{D}$  be an evasive distribution of circuit tuples. Let  $\mathcal{A}$  be a potential adversary against Obf, Eval relative to  $\mathcal{D}$ . Let  $\epsilon$  be the probability  $\mathcal{A}$  wins the composable input-hiding experiment. We consider the following experiments on  $\mathcal{A}$ :

{15}------------------------------------------------

- Experiment 1. Sample  $\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}$ . Sample  $(C_1, \ldots, C_s, \mathsf{aux}) \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$ . Then run  $\hat{C}_j \leftarrow \mathsf{Obf}(C_j) = \mathcal{O}(C_j, r_j)$  for  $j \in [t]$ . where  $r_j \in \{0, 1\}^t$  are uniform. Now run  $x \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}}(\hat{C}_1, \cdots, \hat{C}_s, \mathsf{aux})$ . The experiment outputs 1 if  $C_i(x) = 1$  for any  $i \in [s]$ ; that is, if  $\mathcal{A}$  wins the composable input-hiding experiment. Thus the probability Experiment 1 outputs 1 is  $\epsilon_1 = \epsilon$ .
- Experiment 2. This is identical to Experiment 1, except we condition on the  $r_j$  being distinct. Let  $\epsilon_2$  be the probability the experiment outputs 1. Note that the  $r_j$  are distinct except with probability  $O(s^2/2^t)$ . Thus,  $|\epsilon_1 \epsilon_2| \leq O(s^2/2^t) = \text{negl}$ .
- Experiment 3. Here, we delay the sampling of  $\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}$ . Sample  $(C_1, \ldots, C_s) \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$ . Then sample uniform distinct  $r_1, \ldots, r_j$  and uniform distinct  $\hat{C}_j \leftarrow \{0,1\}^w$  for each  $j \in [s]$ . Only now do we sample  $\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}$ : we sample  $\mathcal{O}$  as a random injection conditioned on  $\hat{C}_j = \mathcal{O}(C_j, r_j)$ , and define  $\mathcal{E}$  accordingly. Finally we run  $x \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}}(\hat{C}_1, \cdots, \hat{C}_s, \mathsf{aux})$ . The experiment outputs 1 if  $C_i(x) = 1$  for any  $i \in [s]$ . Let  $\epsilon_3$  be the probability Experiment 3 outputs 1. Experiments 2 and 3 are identically distributed, so  $\epsilon_3 = \epsilon_2$ .

Note that in Experiment 3, we can equivalently sample  $\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}$  as follows. First sample a uniform distinct  $r_j \in \{0,1\}^t$  and  $\hat{C}_j \in \{0,1\}^w$ . Then sample random injective  $\mathcal{O}' : (\mathcal{C} \times \{0,1\}^t) \setminus \{(C_j,r_j)\}_j \to \{0,1\}^w \setminus \{\hat{C}_j\}_j$ , and then define

$$\mathcal{O}(C,r) = \begin{cases} \hat{C}_j & \text{if } (C,r) = (C_j, r_j) \\ \mathcal{O}'(C,r) & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}$$

$$\mathcal{E}(\hat{C},x) = \begin{cases} (C_j, r_j) & \text{if } \hat{C} = \hat{C}_j \text{ for some } j \text{ and } C_j(x) = 1 \\ (C,r) & \text{if } \hat{C} \text{ is in the image of } \mathcal{O}', \ (C,r) = (\mathcal{O}')^{-1}(\hat{C}), \text{ and } C(x) = 1 \\ \bot & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}$$

• Experiment 4. This is identical to our alternate view of Experiment 3, except that  $\mathcal{O}'$  is sampled as a random injection from  $\mathcal{O}': (\mathcal{C} \times \{0,1\}^t) \setminus \{(C_j,r_j)\}_j \to \{0,1\}^w$ . Let  $\epsilon_4$  be the probability Experiment 3 outputs 1. We see that the distribution of each output of  $\mathcal{O}'$  is changed from uniform over  $\{0,1\}^w \setminus \{\hat{C}_j\}_j$  to uniform over  $\{0,1\}^w$ . The statistical distance between these distributions is  $s/2^w$ . Then a union bound over all  $|\mathcal{C}| \times 2^t$  gives a distance of  $|\epsilon_3 - \epsilon_2| \leq s|\mathcal{C}|2^t/2^w$ . This is negligible by our assumption that  $w \geq t + \log_2 |\mathcal{C}| + \omega(\log \lambda)$ , since s is polynomial. Thus,  $|\epsilon_4 - \epsilon_3| \leq \text{negl}$ .

Note that in Experiment 4, we might as well sample  $\mathcal{O}'$  as a random injection on  $\mathcal{O}'$ :  $\mathcal{C} \times \{0,1\}^t \to \{0,1\}^w$ , since the values of  $\mathcal{O}'$  on  $\{(C_j,r_j)\}_j$  are ignored.

• Experiment 5. This is identical to Experiment 4, except that we define  $\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}$  in terms of  $\mathcal{O}'$  as follows:

$$\mathcal{O} = \mathcal{O}'$$

$$\mathcal{E}(\hat{C}, x) = \begin{cases} \bot & \text{if } \hat{C} = \hat{C}_j \text{ for some } j \\ (C, r) & \text{if } \hat{C} \text{ is in the image of } \mathcal{O}', \ (C, r) = (\mathcal{O}')^{-1}(\hat{C}), \text{ and } C(x) = 1 \\ \bot & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}$$

Let  $\epsilon_5$  be the probability Experiment 5 outputs 1. Notice that the only differences between Experiment 4 and Experiment 5 are the following:

{16}------------------------------------------------

- We changed  $\mathcal{E}$  on inputs  $(\hat{C}, x)$  such that both (1)  $\hat{C} = \hat{C}_j$  for some j, corresponding to program  $C_j$ , and (2)  $C_j(x) = 1$ .
- We changed  $\mathcal{O}$  on inputs  $(C_j, r_j)$

Observe that, in Experiment 5, the oracles are independent of the  $C_j$ . This allows us to conclude the  $\epsilon_5$  is negligible. Indeed, we can construct an algorithm  $\mathcal{A}'(\mathsf{aux})$  which is given  $\mathsf{aux}$  sampled from  $(C_1, \ldots, C_s, \mathsf{aux}) \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$ .  $\mathcal{A}'(\mathsf{aux})$  runs  $\mathcal{A}$ , simulating the view of  $\mathcal{A}$  in Experiment 5. Then it outputs whatever  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs. Then  $\mathcal{A}'$  outputs an x such that  $C_j(x) = 1$  for some j with probability exactly  $\epsilon_5$ . But this probability must be negligible by the evasiveness of  $\mathcal{D}$ .

It remains to prove that  $|\epsilon_4 - \epsilon_5|$  is negligible, which would then allow us to conclude  $\epsilon$  is negligible, a contradiction. We prove this by showing that the total query weight by  $\mathcal{A}$  in Experiment 5 on inputs where Experiment 4 and Experiment 5 differ is negligible; by Lemma 3 this means  $|\epsilon_4 - \epsilon_5|$  is negligible as desired.

We must handle two different kinds of differing points.

- Queries to  $\mathcal{O}$  on inputs  $(C_j, r_j)$ . Notice that in Experiment 5, the view of  $\mathcal{A}$  is independent of the  $r_j$ . Since the  $r_j$  are uniform in a super-polynomial-sized set, this means the total expected query weight in Experiment 5 on points  $(C_j, r_j)$  is negligible.
- Queries to  $\mathcal{E}$  on inputs  $(\hat{C}, x)$  such that both (1)  $\hat{C} = \hat{C}_j$  for some j, corresponding to program  $C_j$ , and (2)  $C_j(x) = 1$ . We prove the query weight on such points is negligible in Experiment 5 by constructing a different adversary  $\mathcal{A}''(\mathsf{aux})$  which is given  $\mathsf{aux}$  sampled from  $(C_1, \ldots, C_s, \mathsf{aux}) \leftarrow \mathcal{D}$ .  $\mathcal{A}''(\mathsf{aux})$  chooses a random  $i \in [Q]$ , where Q is the total number of queries  $\mathcal{A}$  makes to  $\mathcal{E}$ . Then it runs  $\mathcal{A}$ , simulating the view of  $\mathcal{A}$  in Experiment 5 up until  $\mathcal{A}$  makes the ith query. It then measures the query, obtaining  $(\hat{C}, x)$ ; it outputs x.

The probability  $C_j(x) = 1$  for some j is exactly 1/Q times the total query weight on such x. By the evasiveness of  $\mathcal{D}$ , this probability must be negligible. The query weight must therefore also be negligible since Q is a polynomial.

This completes the proof of Theorem 13.

**Remark 3.** The requirement that  $t = \omega(\log \lambda)$  is necessary, as otherwise the adversary can detect whether two programs are equal by testing if their obfuscated versions are equal. Such an equality pattern could reveal an accepting input that would otherwise not be available just given aux.

However, if one restricts to the case of a single program (s = 1), then t can be taken to be 0. We can also consider the class C of point functions  $I_x$ . In this case, the oracle E can be simulated just given O: to test if  $\hat{C}(x) = 1$ , simply check if  $O(I_x) = \hat{C}$ . We are left with just a random injection O, which acts as an injective one-way function. Thus, we see that our model of evasive obfuscation also captures (injective) one-way functions.

## <span id="page-16-0"></span>6 The Canonical Verifier

Here, we discuss what we call a canonical verifier for a quantum money scheme. The goal is to make the verifier almost projective, while allowing for the measurements of various queries to be projective (the latter feature to be discussed in Section 7). Along the way, we give a new tool for amplifying the correctness of a quantum money scheme, which may result in smaller banknotes than the straightforward approach of parallel repetition.

{17}------------------------------------------------

Assume a c-correct quantum money scheme  $\mathsf{Gen}, \mathsf{Ver}$ . Let  $\mathcal{H}$  be the register of the quantum money state. For a serial number  $\sigma$ , let  $\mathsf{Ver}_{\sigma}$  be the measurement corresponding to applying  $\mathsf{Ver}(\sigma,\cdot)$  to  $\mathcal{H}$ . By dilation, we can make  $\mathsf{Ver}_{\sigma}$  projective over the joint system  $\mathcal{H}\otimes\mathcal{Z}$ , where  $\mathcal{Z}$  is initialized to  $|0\rangle$ . Throughout we will let \$ refer to the state over  $\mathcal{H}$  produced by  $\mathsf{Gen}$  and \$' the state over the joint system  $\mathcal{H}\times\mathcal{Z}$ . Let Z be the 1-dimensional projective measurement on  $\mathcal{Z}$  which accepts  $|0\rangle$ . We will slightly abuse notation, and also consider  $\mathsf{Ver}_{\sigma}, Z$  as being projections on the joint system  $\mathcal{H}\times\mathcal{Z}$ .

Fix parameters  $p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma \in [0, 1]$ . Here,  $p, \epsilon, \gamma$  will be inverse polynomials; the precise relationships will be discussed in Section 7, which will be based in part on what we develop here.  $\delta$  is negligible. Let  $\mathcal{P}(\sigma) = \{ \mathsf{Ver}_{\sigma}, Z \}$  be the set of projective measurements on  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ , and  $D_p$  the distribution over  $\mathcal{P}$  which selects  $\mathsf{Ver}_{\sigma}$  with probability p and Z with probability 1-p. We define a new verifier for the quantum money scheme:

**Algorithm 14** (Canonical Verifier). Let  $\mathsf{Ver}_{*,\sigma,p,\epsilon,\delta} = \mathsf{API}^{\mathcal{P}(\sigma),D_p}_{\epsilon,\delta}$  which operates on  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ , and define  $\mathsf{Ver}_*(\sigma,\$ \mid c,p,\epsilon,\delta,\gamma)$  to be the following algorithm:

- 1. Apply  $Ver_{*,\sigma,p,\epsilon,\delta}$  to  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ , obtaining outcome R
- 2. Accept if and only if  $R \geq 1 p(1-c) \gamma \epsilon$

We also define a new note generator:

**Algorithm 15** (Canonical Gen). Define  $Gen_*(|c,p,\epsilon,\delta,\gamma)$  to be the following algorithm:

- <span id="page-17-0"></span>1. Run  $(\sigma, \$) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}()$ . Let  $\mathcal{H}$  be the register containing \$. As above, we will initialize a register  $\mathcal{Z}$  with  $|0\rangle$ .
- 2. Apply  $\operatorname{Ver}_*(\sigma, \cdot \mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma)$  to  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ , letting \$' be the state remaining in  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ .
- 3. If  $Ver_*$  accepts, output  $(\sigma, \$')$ . Otherwise discard  $(\sigma, \$')$  and go to Step 1.

In the rest of this section, we prove some general properties of Gen<sub>\*</sub>, Ver<sub>\*</sub>.

**Correctness.** We first consider the quantum money scheme (Gen, Ver<sub>\*</sub>). This is a slight abuse of notation, since notes from Gen lie in  $\mathcal{H}$ , whereas notes for Ver<sub>\*</sub> lie in  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ . When considering such a scheme, we therefore interpret Gen as initializing  $\mathcal{Z}$  to  $|0\rangle$ , and outputting  $\$' = \$ \otimes |0\rangle \in \mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$  as the note.

**Lemma 16.** If Gen, Ver is c-correct, then Gen, Ver\* $(\cdot, \cdot \mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma)$  is c\*\*-correct, where  $c_* = \frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} - \delta$ .

Proof. Consider sampling  $(\sigma, \$) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}()$  and letting  $\$' = \$ \otimes |0\rangle \in \mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ . Since  $\mathsf{Gen}$ ,  $\mathsf{Ver}$  is c-correct, we know that applying  $\mathsf{Ver}_{\sigma}$  to \$' will accept with probability at least c (over the randomness of both  $\mathsf{Gen}$  and  $\mathsf{Ver}_{\sigma}$ ). Applying Z will accept with probability 1. Therefore, the mixture  $\mathcal{P}_{D_p}(\sigma)$  will accept with probability at least (1-p)+pc=1-p(1-c).

Now consider applying  $\operatorname{\mathsf{ProjImp}}(\mathcal{P}_{D_p}(\sigma))$  to \$', resulting in outcome R. We know that  $\mathbb{E}[R]$  is equal to the probability  $\mathcal{P}_{D_p}(\sigma)$  accepts, and so  $\mathbb{E}[R] \geq 1 - p(1-c)$ . Since  $R \leq 1$ , we have that  $1 - R \geq 0$  and  $\mathbb{E}[1 - R] \leq p(1 - c)$ . By Markov's inequality, we therefore have that  $\Pr[1 - R > p(1-c) + \gamma] \leq \frac{p(1-c)}{p(1-c)+\gamma}$ . Equivalently,  $\Pr[R \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma] \geq \gamma/(p(1-c)+\gamma)$ .

{18}------------------------------------------------

Now we imagine computing R from  $\mathsf{API}^{\mathcal{P}(\sigma),D_p}_{\epsilon,\delta}$  as in  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$ . By Lemma 7, we conclude that  $\Pr[R \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - \epsilon] \geq \gamma/(p(1-c) + \gamma) - \delta = c_*$ , and thus  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$  accepts with at last this probability.

<span id="page-18-2"></span>**Lemma 17.** Let T be the combined run time of  $\mathsf{Gen}$ ,  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$ . If  $\mathsf{Gen}$ ,  $\mathsf{Ver}$  is c-correct, then the expected running time of  $\mathsf{Gen}_*(\mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma)$  is at most

$$T/\left(\frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma}-\delta\right).\ Moreover,\ \mathsf{Gen}_*(\mid c,p,\epsilon,\delta,\gamma), \mathsf{Ver}_*(\cdot,\cdot\mid c,p,\epsilon,\delta,\gamma+\epsilon)\ is\ (1-\delta)\text{-}correct.$$

*Proof.* Each trial of  $\mathsf{Gen}_*$  takes time T, and succeeds with probability at least  $c_* = \frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} - \delta$ . This proves the running time of  $\mathsf{Gen}_*$ . Then  $(1-\delta)$ -correctness follows from the fact that  $\mathsf{Ver}_{*,\sigma,p,\epsilon,\delta}$  is  $(\epsilon,\delta)$ -almost projective.

**Security.** We first need the following technical lemma characterizing the kind of states accepted by  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$ :

<span id="page-18-1"></span>**Lemma 18.** Suppose  $p/(1-p) \le c/3$  and  $2\epsilon + \gamma + \delta \le pc/3$ . Consider applying  $\operatorname{Ver}_*(\sigma, \cdot \mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma)$  to a quantum state over  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ , and post-select on acceptance. Let \$ be the resulting state contained in  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ . Then  $\operatorname{Ver}(\sigma, \$)$  accepts with probability at least  $W \ge c/9$ .

*Proof.* Let R be the outcome of the measurement  $\mathsf{Ver}_{*,\sigma,p,\epsilon,\delta}$  applied during running  $\mathsf{Ver}_{*}$ . By definition, since  $\mathsf{Ver}_{*}$  accepted, we have  $R \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - \epsilon$ . Now let v be the probability  $\mathsf{Ver}_{\sigma}$  accepts \$, and z the probability Z accepts \$.

Now consider applying  $\mathsf{ProjImp}(\mathcal{P}_{D_p}(\sigma))$  to a state \$' accepted by  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$ , obtaining outcome R'. By Lemma 7, we know that  $\Pr[|R'-R| \geq \epsilon] \leq \delta$ . Therefore, we have that  $R' \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2\epsilon$ , except with probability  $\delta$ . Since R' must be non-negative, this implies that  $\mathbb{E}[R'] \geq (1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2\epsilon)(1 - \delta) \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2\epsilon - \delta$ .

On the other hand, know that  $\mathbb{E}[R'] = pv + (1-p)z$  by the definition of v, z. In particular, this means  $z \in [1 - \frac{p(1-c) + \gamma + 2\epsilon + \delta}{1-p}, 1]$ . Now consider the state \$", which is the normalized state Z\$' resulting from applying Z to \$' and then post-selecting on acceptance. Let v' be the probability  $\operatorname{Ver}_{\sigma}$  accepts \$". Then by gentle measurement  $d(\$',\$'') \leq 2\sqrt{1-z}$ , meaning  $|v-v'| \leq 2\sqrt{1-z}$ . This means \$" is accepted by  $\operatorname{Ver}_{\sigma}$  with probability at least

$$\begin{aligned} v - 2\sqrt{1 - z} &= z + (\mathbb{E}[R'] - z)/p - 2\sqrt{1 - z} \\ &\geq z + \frac{1 - z - p(1 - c) - \gamma - 2\epsilon - \delta}{p} - 2\sqrt{1 - z} := f(z) \end{aligned}$$

We now observe that f(z) is convex (its second derivative is  $(1-z)^{-3/2}/2$ ). Moreover, its first derivative vanishes when  $z = (1-2p)/(1-p)^2$ , meaning f(z) is minimized at this point. Thus, \$" is accepted by  $\operatorname{Ver}_{\sigma}$  with probability at least

<span id="page-18-0"></span>
$$f((1-2p)/(1-p)^2) = c - \frac{p}{1-p} - \frac{2\epsilon + \gamma + \delta}{p}$$
 (2)

Now consider the following operation on  $\mathcal{S}'$ . We discard the  $\mathcal{Z}$  register, and then feed the resulting state  $\rho$  contained in  $\mathcal{H}$  into Ver. Since Ver is equivalent to applying  $\operatorname{Ver}_{\sigma}$  on  $\mathcal{H}$  with a zero'd out  $\mathcal{Z}$  register, we know that Ver will at least accept if (1) applying Z accepts, and then (2) subsequently applying  $\operatorname{Ver}_{\sigma}$  accepts (it may also accept if (1) does not happen). We already

{19}------------------------------------------------

computed the probability of (2) in Equation 2. Meanwhile, the probability of (1) is simply z, which is lower-bounded by  $1 - \frac{p(1-c) + \gamma + 2\epsilon + \delta}{1-p}$ . Therefore, Ver accepts  $\rho$  with probability at least

$$W := \left(1 - \frac{p(1-c) + \gamma + 2\epsilon + \delta}{1-p}\right) \times \left(c - \frac{p}{1-p} - \frac{\gamma + 2\epsilon + \delta}{p}\right)$$

Now we use our assumption that  $p/(1-p) \le c/3$  and  $2\epsilon + \gamma + \delta \le pc/3$  to lower-bound W as

$$W \ge (1 - c/3 - c/9)(c - c/3 - c/3) \ge c/9$$

This completes the proof of Lemma 18

Now we prove security of Ver<sub>\*</sub>.

<span id="page-19-0"></span>**Lemma 19.** If Gen, Ver is  $\alpha$ -secure and  $p/(1-p) \leq c/3$  and  $2\epsilon + \gamma + \delta \leq pc/3$ , then the pair Gen, Ver<sub>\*</sub> $(\cdot, \cdot \mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma)$  is  $\alpha_*$ -secure, where  $\alpha_* = 81\alpha/c^2$ .

*Proof.* Consider any adversary  $\mathcal{A}_*$  for the  $\alpha_*$ -security of  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$ . We construct an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  for the  $\alpha$ -security of  $\mathsf{Ver}$ .  $\mathcal{A}$  simply runs  $\mathcal{A}_*$  to get two (potentially entangled) quantum banknotes  $\rho_{1,2}^*$ . It runs  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$  on each of  $\rho_1^*$ ,  $\rho_2^*$ . Then for each note  $\rho_1^*$ ,  $\rho_2^*$ , it runs  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$ , then discards the  $\mathcal{Z}$  register, and outputs the two  $\mathcal{H}$  registers as  $\rho_{1,2}$ .

The probability  $\rho_1^*$ ,  $\rho_2^*$  both pass  $\text{Ver}_*$  is greater than  $\alpha_*$  by assumption. Then each of the resulting  $\mathcal{H}$  registers pass Ver with probability at least c/9 by Lemma 18. Overall, then,  $\mathcal{A}$  produces two accepting banknotes with probability greater than  $\alpha_*(c/9)^2 = \alpha$ , breaking the  $\alpha$ -security of Ver.

Independence. One may be concerned that the events that the two H registers pass verification are correlated, meaning though each passes Ver with probability c/9, both simultaneously pass verification with probability somewhat larger than  $(c/9)^2$ . Indeed, the two events are correlated. However, while the events are correlated, it is straightforward to show that A still succeeds with probability  $\alpha$ . Toward that end, consider the following operations:

- $O_b$  for  $b \in \{1, 2\}$ : the measurement  $\operatorname{Ver}_*$  that  $\mathcal{A}$  applies to  $\rho_b^*$  produced by  $\mathcal{A}_*$ .
- $N_b$ : the measurement Ver that the experiment performs on  $\rho_b$  produced by  $\mathcal{A}$

Note that  $O_1, O_2$  commute as do  $O_1, N_2$  and  $O_2, N_1$ , since the elements in each pair act on different registers. Thus we can shuffle the order without affecting the outcome probabilities; the only constraint is that  $N_b$  must come after  $O_b$ . So consider applying  $O_2, O_1, N_1$  in that order, and only proceeding if the previous measurement accepts. We know that  $O_2, O_1$  accept jointly with probability more than  $\alpha_*$ . But now we have a state that was just accepted by  $O_1$  and gets fed into  $N_1$ ; we know via the above analysis that  $N_1$  accepts this state with probability at least W. Thus,  $O_2, O_1, N_1$  all jointly accept with probability at least  $\alpha W$ .

Next consider applying  $O_1, N_1, O_2, N_2$  in that order. By commutativity and what we just analyzed,  $O_1, N_1, O_2$  jointly accept with probability at least  $\alpha W$ . But now we have a state that was just accepted by  $O_2$  and gets fed into  $N_2$ ; we know that  $N_2$  accepts this state with probability at least W. Thus  $O_1, N_1, O_2, N_2$  jointly accept with probability at least  $\alpha W^2$ . This completes the proof of Lemma 19.

{20}------------------------------------------------

**Lemma 20.** If Gen, Ver is  $\alpha$ -secure and  $p/(1-p) \leq c/3$  and  $2\epsilon + \gamma + \delta \leq pc/3$ , then  $\operatorname{Gen}_*(\mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma), \operatorname{Ver}_*(\cdot, \cdot \mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma + \epsilon)$  is  $\alpha_{**}$ -secure, where  $\alpha_{**} = \alpha_* \times \left(\frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} - \delta\right)^{-1} = (81\alpha/c^2) \times \left(\frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} - \delta\right)^{-1}$ .

*Proof.* Let  $\mathcal{A}_{**}$  be an adversary breaking the  $\alpha_{**}$ -security of  $\mathsf{Gen}_*, \mathsf{Ver}_*$ . We will construct a new adversary  $\mathcal{A}_*$  for  $\mathsf{Gen}, \mathsf{Ver}_*$ .  $\mathcal{A}_*(\sigma, \$)$  does the following:

- 1. Using our abuse of notation, we will interpret \$ as a state over the joint system  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ , where  $\mathcal{Z}$  is initialized to  $|0\rangle$ .
- 2. Apply  $\operatorname{\sf Ver}_*(\sigma, \cdot \mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma)$  to  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ . If it rejects, abort and output  $\perp$ .
- 3. Otherwise, apply  $\mathcal{A}_{**}(\sigma,\cdot)$  to  $\mathcal{H}\otimes\mathcal{Z}$ , obtaining state  $\rho_{1,2}$ . Output  $\rho_{1,2}$ .

By Lemma 19, the success probability of  $\mathcal{A}_*$  is at most  $\alpha_*$ . Conditioned on not rejecting, the state given to  $\mathcal{A}_{**}$  is identically distributed to the state  $(\sigma, \$) \leftarrow \mathsf{Gen}_*(\mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma)$ , meaning conditioned on not rejecting the success probability of  $\mathcal{A}_*$  is more than  $\alpha_{**}$ . On the other hand, the probability of rejection is bounded by  $\left(\frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} - \delta\right)$ . Therefore, the overall success probability of  $\mathcal{A}_*$  must be more than  $\alpha_{**} \times \left(\frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} - \delta\right) = \alpha_*$ , a contradiction.

In particular, if Gen, Ver is negligibly secure, then  $\mathsf{Gen}_*$ ,  $\mathsf{Ver}_*$  is negligibly secure while also being  $(1-\mathsf{negl})$ -correct. This gives a new approach to amplifying the correctness of a quantum money scheme. Previously, the only known approach was parallel repetition: each banknote consists of several independent notes, and the overall note is accepted as long as at least one of the constituent notes is valid. This simple correctness amplification technique, however, blows of the note size be  $\omega(\log \lambda)/c$ . Our solution also blows up the note size, since the verifier's workspace qubits become part of the note. But for schemes with very low correctness and/or little workspace qubits, our approach will yield smaller banknotes. Certainly the serial numbers will be shorter with our approach.

## <span id="page-20-0"></span>7 Impossibility for Respecting Quantum Money

Here, we prove that there is no black box construction of a respecting quantum money scheme from evasive obfuscation.

Quantum Money Relative to Evasive Obfuscation Oracles. It is straightforward to adapt the definition of quantum money (Definition 9) to a relativized model where Gen, Ver and the adversary may make queries to an oracle. Likewise, the results of Section 6 are also easily adapted to a relativized model. From this point forward, we will consider the case where Gen, Ver and the adversary have oracle access to our evasive obfuscation oracles from Section 5. We now define what it means to be respecting:

**Definition 21.** A quantum money scheme (Gen, Ver) relative to the evasive obfuscation oracles  $\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}$  is respecting if the following are true: (1) Gen makes only classical queries to  $\mathcal{O}$ , and (2) Ver makes no queries to  $\mathcal{O}$ .

{21}------------------------------------------------

Since the outputs of  $\mathcal{O}$  are sparse, a standard argument shows that we can assume (incurring negligible error) all queries to  $\mathcal{E}(\hat{C},x)$  were of  $\hat{C}$  previously outputted by  $\mathcal{O}$ . Since Gen "knows" all queries made to  $\mathcal{O}$ , it can answer all  $\mathcal{E}$  queries for itself. Thus, we can additionally assume for respecting schemes that Gen makes no queries to  $\mathcal{E}$ .

**Our main theorem.** We now give the main theorem of this section and the paper:

<span id="page-21-0"></span>**Theorem 22.** If  $w \ge t + \log_2 |\mathcal{C}| + \omega(\log \lambda)$ , there does not exist a respecting quantum money scheme relative to the evasive obfuscation oracles  $\mathcal{O}, \mathcal{E}$ .

The rest of this section is devoted to the proof of Theorem 22.

### 7.1 Measuring Queries

Before describing our attack, we describe how to use canonical verifiers to measure queries. Let  $\mathsf{Gen}^{\mathcal{O},\mathcal{E}},\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{O},\mathcal{E}}$  be a quantum money scheme relative to evasive obfuscation oracles  $\mathcal{O},\mathcal{E}$ . We will consider  $\mathsf{Ver}$  taking as input a money state in system  $\mathcal{H}$ , and using ancilla register  $\mathcal{Z}$  as work space, where  $\mathcal{Z}$  is initialized to  $|0\rangle$ . Let Q be the number of queries that  $\mathsf{Ver}$  makes to  $\mathcal{E}$ . We define projections  $\Pi_{\sigma,q,f}$  on  $\mathcal{H}\otimes\mathcal{Z}$  where  $q\in[Q]$  and f is a function with domain  $\{0,1\}^w\times\{0,1\}^n$ , corresponding to the query inputs for a query to  $\mathcal{E}$ :

- Let  $U_{\sigma,q}$  be the unitary which runs  $\mathsf{Ver}(\sigma,\cdot)$  until the qth query to  $\mathcal{E}$ . Apply  $U_{\sigma,q}$  to  $\mathcal{H}\otimes\mathcal{Z}$ .
- The query to  $\mathcal{E}$  interprets  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$  as containing  $\sum_{\hat{C},x,y,a} \mu_{\hat{C},x,y,a} |\hat{C},x,y,a\rangle$ , where  $\hat{C},x$  are the inputs to the query, the output is XORed into y, and a is the remaining part of the quantum system.

 $\Pi_{\sigma,q,f}$  does the following: construct  $\sum_{\hat{C},x,y,a} \mu_{\hat{C},x,y,a} |\hat{C},x,y,a\rangle |f(\hat{C},x)\rangle$  by applying f in superposition to the query registers, writing the response to a new register  $\mathcal{I}$ .

- $\Pi_{\sigma,q,f}$  now measures  $\mathcal{I}$  to obtain measurement outcome I. It discards the register  $\mathcal{I}$ .
- Finally,  $\Pi_{\sigma,q,f}$  applies the unitary  $U_{\sigma,q}^{\dagger}$  to  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ .

It is clear that  $\Pi_{\sigma,q,f}$  is projective over  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ . This will be important for our application of state repair, since state repair [CMSZ22] requires projections.

#### 7.2 The Attack

Let Gen, Ver be a respecting scheme that is c-correct. Recall that a respecting scheme is one where Gen makes only classical queries to  $\mathcal{O}$ , and Ver makes no queries to  $\mathcal{O}$ . Let  $\mathsf{Ver}_{*,\sigma,p,\epsilon,\delta}^{\mathcal{E}}$  be the almost projective measurement over the joint system  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$  from Section 6, and  $\mathsf{Ver}_*^{\mathcal{E}}(\cdot, \cdot \mid c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma)$  the associated canonical verifier. Let P be the number of queries Gen makes to  $\mathcal{O}$  and Q be the number of queries Ver makes to  $\mathcal{E}$ . We now describe our attack

<span id="page-21-1"></span>**Algorithm 23.** Let  $\mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma,\$)$  be the following algorithm:

- 1. Let  $\mathcal{H}$  be the register containing \$, and initialize a new register  $\mathcal{Z}$  to  $|0\rangle$ .
- 2. Initialize an empty list L.

{22}------------------------------------------------

- 3. Apply  $\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}_{*,\sigma,p,\epsilon,\delta}$  to  $\mathcal{H}\otimes\mathcal{Z}$ , obtaining outcome  $R_0$ .
- 4. Let f be the function that on input  $(\hat{C}, x) \in \{0, 1\}^w \times \{0, 1\}^n$  computes  $y = \mathcal{E}(\hat{C}, x)$ . If  $y = C \neq \bot$ , then output  $(C, \hat{C})$ ; otherwise output  $\bot$ .
- 5. Let U be a parameter to be chosen later. For i = 1, ..., U, do the following:
  - (a) Choose a random  $q_i \in [Q]$
  - (b) Apply the measurement  $\Pi_i = \Pi_{\sigma,q_i,f}$  to  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$ , and let  $y_i$  be the outcome of the measurement.
  - (c) Then apply QRepair  $_{T,R_{i-1},y_i}^{\operatorname{Ver}_{*,\sigma,p,\epsilon,\delta}^{\mathcal{E}},\Pi_i}$  where  $T=\sqrt{1/\delta}$ .
  - (d) If  $y_i$  has the form  $(C, \hat{C}) \neq \bot$ , add  $(C, \hat{C})$  to L (if it not already present).
  - (e) Finally, run  $\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}_{*,\sigma,p,\epsilon,\delta}$  on  $\mathcal{H}\otimes\mathcal{Z}$ , obtaining outcome  $R_i$ .
- <span id="page-22-2"></span>6. Let  $\mathcal{E}'$  be the following function:

$$\mathcal{E}'(\hat{C}, x) = \begin{cases} C & \text{if there is a pair } (C, \hat{C}) \in L \text{ and } C(x) = 1\\ \bot & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}$$

- <span id="page-22-0"></span>7. Inefficiently construct  $\$_1, \$_2$ , two copies of a state  $\rho$  over  $\mathcal{H}$  satisfying the following, assuming it exists:
  - $\Pr[\operatorname{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}'}(\sigma, \rho) = 1] \ge V := c/9 Q\sqrt{P/(U-1)}$ .
  - The query weight  $\operatorname{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}'}(\sigma,\rho)$  makes on terms  $(\hat{C},x)$  such that  $\hat{C}$  does not appear in L is at most  $W:=Q^2\sqrt{P/(U-1)}$
- 8. Output  $\$_1, \$_2$ .

#### 7.3 Analysis

We prove that  $\mathcal{A}$  in Algorithm 23 succeeds with non-negligible probability. We first show that, if  $|\psi\rangle$  exists, then the states outputted by  $\mathcal{A}$  pass verification:

<span id="page-22-3"></span>**Lemma 24.** Suppose a state  $\rho$  (as in Step 7) exists, and consider running  $\text{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma, \rho)$ . Then Ver accepts with probability at least  $V - O(\sqrt{QW})$ .

*Proof.* Let S be the set of terms  $(\hat{C}, x)$  such that  $\hat{C}$  does not appear in L. By assumption, we have that  $\Pr[\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}'}(\sigma, \rho) = 1] \geq V$  and the total query weight on terms in S is at most W. Observe that  $\mathcal{E}(\hat{C}, x) = \mathcal{E}'(\hat{C}, x)$  for all  $(\hat{C}, x) \notin S$ . Therefore, by Lemma 3, we have that  $\Pr[\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma, \rho) = 1] \geq V - O(\sqrt{QW})$ .

We now demonstrate that  $|\psi\rangle$  exists with reasonable probability.

<span id="page-22-1"></span>**Lemma 25.** Let P be the number of queries made by Gen. Assuming  $w \ge t + \log_2 |\mathcal{C}| + \omega(\log \lambda)$ , then with probability at least  $X = \left(\frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} - \delta\right) - \left(U(2P+6)\sqrt{\delta}\right) - (\mathsf{negl})$ ,  $R_i \ge 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2(i+1)\epsilon$  for all  $i \in [0, U]$ 

{23}------------------------------------------------

*Proof.* By the  $\frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} - \delta$  correctness of Gen, Ver\* (Lemma 17),  $R_0 \ge 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2\epsilon$  except with probability at most  $\delta$ . This gives the first term in the statement of Lemma 25.

Let O be the set of query responses from the queries Gen makes to O. We first imagine replacing the measurements  $\Pi_i = \Pi_{\sigma,q_i,f}$  with  $\Pi_i = \Pi_{\sigma,q_i,f'}$ , where

$$f'(\hat{C}, x) = \begin{cases} f(\hat{C}, x) & \text{if } \hat{C} \in O \\ \bot & \text{otherwise} \end{cases}$$

A routine argument shows that  $\operatorname{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}$  only has negligible query mass to  $\mathcal{E}$  on  $(\hat{C}, x)$  such that both  $\hat{C} \notin O$  and  $f(\hat{C}, x) \neq \bot$ . This is because  $\hat{C}$  that are in the image of  $\mathcal{O}$  are negligibly sparse in  $\{0, 1\}^w$ , and  $\operatorname{Ver}$  can only have information about the  $\hat{C}$  that were the result of previous queries to  $\mathcal{O}$ , namely the set O.

Then we observe that f and f' coincide except on  $(\hat{C}, x)$  such that both  $\hat{C} \notin O$  and  $\mathcal{E}(\hat{C}, x) \neq \bot$ . Since the weight on these points is negligible, Lemma 3 shows that the effect of switching from f to f' is negligible. We therefore proceed assuming the measurements applied are  $\Pi_i = \Pi_{\sigma,q_i,f'}$ . This introduces an error that gives the third term in the statement of Lemma 25.

Suppose that  $R_{i-1} \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2i\epsilon$ . Applying Lemma 6 gives  $R_i \geq R_{i-1} - 2\epsilon \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2(i+1)\epsilon$ , except with probability  $Z = N\delta + N/T + 4\sqrt{\delta}$  where N is the number of outcomes of the measurement  $\Pi_i = \Pi_{\sigma,q_i,f'}$ . But the number of outcomes is |O| + 1 = P + 1, as the outcome can either be  $\bot$  or one of the P circuits C such that are queried by Gen. Recall that  $T = \sqrt{1/\delta}$ . Thus  $Z = (P+1)(\delta + \sqrt{\delta}) + 4\sqrt{\delta} \leq (2P+6)\sqrt{\delta}$ . Union-bounding over all i gives the the second term in the statement of Lemma 25, proving the lemma.

<span id="page-23-0"></span>**Lemma 26.** Consider the state  $\rho_i$  of  $\mathcal{H} \otimes \mathcal{Z}$  at the end of Step 5e during the ith iteration. Assume  $R_i \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2(i+1)\epsilon$ , and assume  $p/(1-p) \leq c/3$  and  $2(U+1)\epsilon + \gamma + \delta \leq pc/3$ . Then  $\Pr[1 \leftarrow \mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma, \rho_i)] \geq c/9$ .

*Proof.* The requirement that  $R_i \ge 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2(i+1)\epsilon$  is the same as saying that  $\mathsf{Ver}_*(\sigma. \cdot | c, p, \epsilon, \delta, \gamma_i)$  accepts  $\rho_i$ , where  $\gamma_i = \gamma + 2i\epsilon$ . Then Lemma 26 follows immediately from Lemma 18.

<span id="page-23-1"></span>**Lemma 27.** Let S be the set of terms  $(\hat{C}, x)$  such that (1)  $\hat{C}$  was the result of an obfuscation query by Gen, and (2)  $\hat{C}$  does not appear in L by the end of running A. Consider applying  $\text{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma, \rho_i)$  where  $\rho_i$  is as in Lemma 26. Then there exists some iteration  $i \in [1, U - 1]$  such that the query weight  $\text{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma, \rho_i)$  places on S is at most PQ/(U - 1)

Proof. Let  $L_i$  be the list L at the end of the ith iteration, and let  $L_0 = \{\}$  be the initial L. Let  $S_i$  be the set of terms  $(\hat{C}, x)$  such that  $\hat{C}$  does not appear in  $L_i$ . Since  $L_i \subseteq L_U$ , we have  $S = S_U \subseteq S_i$ . Let  $w_i(S)$  and  $w_i(S_i)$  be the query weight  $\text{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma, \rho_i)$  places on S and  $S_i$  respectively. Observe that, in iteration i+1, we apply  $\Pi_{\sigma,q_{i+1},f}$  to  $\rho_i$ . Therefore, the probability of obtaining a  $\hat{C} \notin L_i$  in iteration i+1 is  $w_i(S_i)/Q$ ; in such an event, we have that  $|L_{i+1}| = |L_i| + 1$ .

Therefore,  $\mathbb{E}[L_U] = \sum_{i=1}^{U-1} w_i(S_i)/Q \ge Q^{-1} \sum_{i=1}^{U-1} w_i(S)$ . But we also have that  $\mathbb{E}[L_U] \le P$ . Therefore, there must exist some  $i \in [1, U-1]$  such that  $w_i(S) \le PQ/(U-1)$ .

Now fix an i guaranteed by Lemma 27. Then assuming  $R_i \ge 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2(i+1)\epsilon$  (which happens with probability at least X by Lemma 25) we have that  $\Pr[\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma, \rho_i)] \ge c/9$ . Moreover, the query weight  $\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma, \rho_i)$  places on S is at most PQ/(U-1). Therefore, by Lemma 3, we have

{24}------------------------------------------------

that  $\Pr[\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}'}(\sigma, \rho_i)] \geq c/9 - Q\sqrt{P/(U-1)} = V$ , and by Corollary 4, the query weight  $\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}'}(\sigma, \rho_i)$  places on S is at most  $Q^2\sqrt{P/(U-1)} = W$ . Thus, conditioned on  $R_i \geq 1 - p(1-c) - \gamma - 2(i+1)\epsilon$ , the state  $\rho_i$  satisfies the conditions needed in Step 7, and so the necessary state  $\rho$  exists. Thus  $\mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma,\$)$  will output two copies of this state, which by Lemma 24 will be accepted by  $\mathsf{Ver}^{\mathcal{E}}(\sigma,\cdot)$  with probability  $V - O(\sqrt{QW})$ . These events are independent since they are two independent copies of the same state. Putting it all together, the overall success probability of our adversary is at least  $X(V - \sqrt{QW})^2$ .

It remains to choose values for  $p, \gamma, \epsilon, U, \delta$ . We need the following:

- $p/(1-p) \le c/3$  for Lemma 26.
- $2(U+1)\epsilon + \gamma + \delta \le pc/3$  for Lemma 26.
- X is non-negligible, where  $X = \left(\frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma} \delta\right) \left(U(2Q+6)\sqrt{\delta}\right) (\text{negl}).$
- $V z\sqrt{QW}$  is non-negligible, where  $V = c/9 Q\sqrt{P/(U-1)}$  and  $W = Q^2\sqrt{P/(U-1)}$  and z is the constant hidden in Lemma 24.
- $p, \gamma, \epsilon, U$  are polynomial (but  $\delta$  can be super-polynomial).

The following values suffice:

•  $\delta = 2^{-\lambda}$ . Then  $X = \frac{\gamma}{p(1-c)+\gamma}$  – negl, which is inverse polynomial for any polynomials  $\gamma, p$  and inverse polynomial c.

- p = c/(3+c), giving p/(1-p) = c/3.
- $U = z^4 3^{12} Q^6 c^{-4} P + 1$ , giving  $V z \sqrt{QW} \ge c/27$ .
- $\gamma = \epsilon = pc/4(2U+3)$ , giving  $2(U+1)\epsilon + \gamma + \delta = pc/4 + \delta \le pc/3$ .

This completes the proof of Theorem 22.

## References

- [Aar04] Scott Aaronson. Limitations of quantum advice and one-way communication. In *Proceedings. 19th IEEE Annual Conference on Computational Complexity, 2004.*, pages 320–332. IEEE, 2004.
- <span id="page-24-0"></span>[Aar09] Scott Aaronson. Quantum copy-protection and quantum money. In *Proceedings of the 2009 24th Annual IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity*, CCC '09, pages 229–242, Washington, DC, USA, 2009. IEEE Computer Society.
- <span id="page-24-2"></span>[ABG<sup>+</sup>21] Amit Agarwal, James Bartusek, Vipul Goyal, Dakshita Khurana, and Giulio Malavolta. Post-quantum multi-party computation. In Anne Canteaut and François-Xavier Standaert, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2021*, *Part I*, volume 12696 of *LNCS*, pages 435–464. Springer, Cham, October 2021.
- <span id="page-24-1"></span>[AC12] Scott Aaronson and Paul Christiano. Quantum money from hidden subspaces. In Howard J. Karloff and Toniann Pitassi, editors, 44th ACM STOC, pages 41–60. ACM Press, May 2012.

{25}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-25-8"></span>[ACC+22] Per Austrin, Hao Chung, Kai-Min Chung, Shiuan Fu, Yao-Ting Lin, and Mohammad Mahmoody. On the impossibility of key agreements from quantum random oracles. In Yevgeniy Dodis and Thomas Shrimpton, editors, *CRYPTO 2022, Part II*, volume 13508 of *LNCS*, pages 165–194. Springer, Cham, August 2022.
- <span id="page-25-7"></span>[AHY23] Prabhanjan Ananth, Zihan Hu, and Henry Yuen. On the (im)plausibility of publickey quantum money from collision-resistant hash functions. In Jian Guo and Ron Steinfeld, editors, *ASIACRYPT 2023, Part VIII*, volume 14445 of *LNCS*, pages 39– 72. Springer, Singapore, December 2023.
- <span id="page-25-9"></span>[Ajt96] Miklós Ajtai. Generating hard instances of lattice problems (extended abstract). In *28th ACM STOC*, pages 99–108. ACM Press, May 1996.
- <span id="page-25-4"></span>[AL21] Prabhanjan Ananth and Rolando L. La Placa. Secure software leasing. In Anne Canteaut and François-Xavier Standaert, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2021, Part II*, volume 12697 of *LNCS*, pages 501–530. Springer, Cham, October 2021.
- <span id="page-25-6"></span>[ALL+21] Scott Aaronson, Jiahui Liu, Qipeng Liu, Mark Zhandry, and Ruizhe Zhang. New approaches for quantum copy-protection. In Tal Malkin and Chris Peikert, editors, *CRYPTO 2021, Part I*, volume 12825 of *LNCS*, pages 526–555, Virtual Event, August 2021. Springer, Cham.
- <span id="page-25-10"></span>[BBBV97] Charles H. Bennett, Ethan Bernstein, Gilles Brassard, and Umesh Vazirani. Strengths and weaknesses of quantum computing. *SIAM J. Comput.*, 26(5):1510– 1523, Oct 1997.
- <span id="page-25-11"></span>[BBC+14] Boaz Barak, Nir Bitansky, Ran Canetti, Yael Tauman Kalai, Omer Paneth, and Amit Sahai. Obfuscation for evasive functions. In Yehuda Lindell, editor, *TCC 2014*, volume 8349 of *LNCS*, pages 26–51. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, February 2014.
- <span id="page-25-3"></span>[BDGM20] Zvika Brakerski, Nico Döttling, Sanjam Garg, and Giulio Malavolta. Factoring and pairings are not necessary for iO: Circular-secure LWE suffices. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1024, 2020.
- <span id="page-25-1"></span>[BDS16] Shalev Ben-David and Or Sattath. Quantum tokens for digital signatures, 2016. https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.09047.
- <span id="page-25-0"></span>[BGI+01] Boaz Barak, Oded Goldreich, Russell Impagliazzo, Steven Rudich, Amit Sahai, Salil P. Vadhan, and Ke Yang. On the (im)possibility of obfuscating programs. In Joe Kilian, editor, *CRYPTO 2001*, volume 2139 of *LNCS*, pages 1–18. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, August 2001.
- <span id="page-25-2"></span>[BGMZ18] James Bartusek, Jiaxin Guan, Fermi Ma, and Mark Zhandry. Return of GGH15: Provable security against zeroizing attacks. In Amos Beimel and Stefan Dziembowski, editors, *TCC 2018, Part II*, volume 11240 of *LNCS*, pages 544–574. Springer, Cham, November 2018.
- <span id="page-25-5"></span>[BKP19] Nir Bitansky, Dakshita Khurana, and Omer Paneth. Weak zero-knowledge beyond the black-box barrier. In Moses Charikar and Edith Cohen, editors, *51st ACM STOC*, pages 1091–1102. ACM Press, June 2019.

{26}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-26-2"></span>[BPR15] Nir Bitansky, Omer Paneth, and Alon Rosen. On the cryptographic hardness of finding a Nash equilibrium. In Venkatesan Guruswami, editor, *56th FOCS*, pages 1480–1498. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2015.
- <span id="page-26-6"></span>[BS20] Nir Bitansky and Omri Shmueli. Post-quantum zero knowledge in constant rounds. In Konstantin Makarychev, Yury Makarychev, Madhur Tulsiani, Gautam Kamath, and Julia Chuzhoy, editors, *52nd ACM STOC*, pages 269–279. ACM Press, June 2020.
- <span id="page-26-1"></span>[BZ14] Dan Boneh and Mark Zhandry. Multiparty key exchange, efficient traitor tracing, and more from indistinguishability obfuscation. In Juan A. Garay and Rosario Gennaro, editors, *CRYPTO 2014, Part I*, volume 8616 of *LNCS*, pages 480–499. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, August 2014.
- <span id="page-26-8"></span>[CGH17] Yilei Chen, Craig Gentry, and Shai Halevi. Cryptanalyses of candidate branching program obfuscators. In Jean-Sébastien Coron and Jesper Buus Nielsen, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2017, Part III*, volume 10212 of *LNCS*, pages 278–307. Springer, Cham, April / May 2017.
- <span id="page-26-3"></span>[CHN+16] Aloni Cohen, Justin Holmgren, Ryo Nishimaki, Vinod Vaikuntanathan, and Daniel Wichs. Watermarking cryptographic capabilities. In Daniel Wichs and Yishay Mansour, editors, *48th ACM STOC*, pages 1115–1127. ACM Press, June 2016.
- <span id="page-26-7"></span>[CLLZ21] Andrea Coladangelo, Jiahui Liu, Qipeng Liu, and Mark Zhandry. Hidden cosets and applications to unclonable cryptography. In Tal Malkin and Chris Peikert, editors, *CRYPTO 2021, Part I*, volume 12825 of *LNCS*, pages 556–584, Virtual Event, August 2021. Springer, Cham.
- <span id="page-26-10"></span>[CLM23] Kai-Min Chung, Yao-Ting Lin, and Mohammad Mahmoody. Black-box separations for non-interactive classical commitments in a quantum world. In Carmit Hazay and Martijn Stam, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2023, Part I*, volume 14004 of *LNCS*, pages 144–172. Springer, Cham, April 2023.
- <span id="page-26-9"></span>[CMSZ22] Alessandro Chiesa, Fermi Ma, Nicholas Spooner, and Mark Zhandry. Post-quantum succinct arguments: Breaking the quantum rewinding barrier. In *62nd FOCS*, pages 49–58. IEEE Computer Society Press, February 2022.
- <span id="page-26-0"></span>[CPDDF+19] Marta Conde Pena, Raul Durán Díaz, Jean-Charles Faugère, Luis Hernández Encinas, and Ludovic Perret. Non-quantum cryptanalysis of the noisy version of aaronson–christiano's quantum money scheme. *IET Information Security*, 13(4):362–366, 2019.
- <span id="page-26-4"></span>[CPR17] Ran Canetti, Oxana Poburinnaya, and Mariana Raykova. Optimal-rate noncommitting encryption. In Tsuyoshi Takagi and Thomas Peyrin, editors, *ASI-ACRYPT 2017, Part III*, volume 10626 of *LNCS*, pages 212–241. Springer, Cham, December 2017.
- <span id="page-26-5"></span>[CVW+18a] Yilei Chen, Vinod Vaikuntanathan, Brent Waters, Hoeteck Wee, and Daniel Wichs. Traitor-tracing from LWE made simple and attribute-based. In Amos Beimel and

{27}------------------------------------------------

- Stefan Dziembowski, editors, *TCC 2018, Part II*, volume 11240 of *LNCS*, pages 341–369. Springer, Cham, November 2018.
- <span id="page-27-9"></span>[CVW18b] Yilei Chen, Vinod Vaikuntanathan, and Hoeteck Wee. GGH15 beyond permutation branching programs: Proofs, attacks, and candidates. In Hovav Shacham and Alexandra Boldyreva, editors, *CRYPTO 2018, Part II*, volume 10992 of *LNCS*, pages 577–607. Springer, Cham, August 2018.
- <span id="page-27-0"></span>[FGH+12] Edward Farhi, David Gosset, Avinatan Hassidim, Andrew Lutomirski, and Peter W. Shor. Quantum money from knots. In Shafi Goldwasser, editor, *ITCS 2012*, pages 276–289. ACM, January 2012.
- <span id="page-27-1"></span>[GGH+13] Sanjam Garg, Craig Gentry, Shai Halevi, Mariana Raykova, Amit Sahai, and Brent Waters. Candidate indistinguishability obfuscation and functional encryption for all circuits. In *54th FOCS*, pages 40–49. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2013.
- <span id="page-27-3"></span>[GGH15] Craig Gentry, Sergey Gorbunov, and Shai Halevi. Graph-induced multilinear maps from lattices. In Yevgeniy Dodis and Jesper Buus Nielsen, editors, *TCC 2015, Part II*, volume 9015 of *LNCS*, pages 498–527. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, March 2015.
- <span id="page-27-6"></span>[GGSW13] Sanjam Garg, Craig Gentry, Amit Sahai, and Brent Waters. Witness encryption and its applications. In Dan Boneh, Tim Roughgarden, and Joan Feigenbaum, editors, *45th ACM STOC*, pages 467–476. ACM Press, June 2013.
- <span id="page-27-5"></span>[GKW17] Rishab Goyal, Venkata Koppula, and Brent Waters. Lockable obfuscation. In Chris Umans, editor, *58th FOCS*, pages 612–621. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2017.
- <span id="page-27-2"></span>[GSWW22] Rachit Garg, Kristin Sheridan, Brent Waters, and David J. Wu. Fully succinct batch arguments for NP from indistinguishability obfuscation. In Eike Kiltz and Vinod Vaikuntanathan, editors, *TCC 2022, Part I*, volume 13747 of *LNCS*, pages 526–555. Springer, Cham, November 2022.
- <span id="page-27-7"></span>[GVW15] Sergey Gorbunov, Vinod Vaikuntanathan, and Hoeteck Wee. Predicate encryption for circuits from LWE. In Rosario Gennaro and Matthew J. B. Robshaw, editors, *CRYPTO 2015, Part II*, volume 9216 of *LNCS*, pages 503–523. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, August 2015.
- <span id="page-27-8"></span>[HHSS17] Shai Halevi, Tzipora Halevi, Victor Shoup, and Noah Stephens-Davidowitz. Implementing BP-obfuscation using graph-induced encoding. In Bhavani M. Thuraisingham, David Evans, Tal Malkin, and Dongyan Xu, editors, *ACM CCS 2017*, pages 783–798. ACM Press, October / November 2017.
- <span id="page-27-4"></span>[HJL21] Samuel B. Hopkins, Aayush Jain, and Huijia Lin. Counterexamples to new circular security assumptions underlying iO. In Tal Malkin and Chris Peikert, editors, *CRYPTO 2021, Part II*, volume 12826 of *LNCS*, pages 673–700, Virtual Event, August 2021. Springer, Cham.

{28}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-28-7"></span>[HSW14] Susan Hohenberger, Amit Sahai, and Brent Waters. Replacing a random oracle: Full domain hash from indistinguishability obfuscation. In Phong Q. Nguyen and Elisabeth Oswald, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2014*, volume 8441 of *LNCS*, pages 201– 220. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, May 2014.
- <span id="page-28-11"></span>[HY20] Akinori Hosoyamada and Takashi Yamakawa. Finding collisions in a quantum world: Quantum black-box separation of collision-resistance and one-wayness. In Shiho Moriai and Huaxiong Wang, editors, *ASIACRYPT 2020, Part I*, volume 12491 of *LNCS*, pages 3–32. Springer, Cham, December 2020.
- <span id="page-28-8"></span>[JLLS23] Aayush Jain, Huijia Lin, Paul Lou, and Amit Sahai. Polynomial-time cryptanalysis of the subspace flooding assumption for post-quantum io. 2023.
- <span id="page-28-1"></span>[Kan18] Daniel M. Kane. Quantum money from modular forms, 2018. https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.05925.
- <span id="page-28-3"></span>[KLS22] Andrey Boris Khesin, Jonathan Z Lu, and Peter W Shor. Publicly verifiable quantum money from random lattices, 2022. <https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.13135v2>.
- <span id="page-28-2"></span>[KSS21] Daniel M. Kane, Shahed Sharif, and Alice Silverberg. Quantum money from quaternion algebras. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/1294, 2021.
- <span id="page-28-5"></span>[LAF+10] Andrew Lutomirski, Scott Aaronson, Edward Farhi, David Gosset, Jonathan A. Kelner, Avinatan Hassidim, and Peter W. Shor. Breaking and making quantum money: Toward a new quantum cryptographic protocol. In Andrew Chi-Chih Yao, editor, *ICS 2010*, pages 20–31. Tsinghua University Press, January 2010.
- <span id="page-28-9"></span>[LLQZ22] Jiahui Liu, Qipeng Liu, Luowen Qian, and Mark Zhandry. Collusion resistant copy-protection for watermarkable functionalities. In Eike Kiltz and Vinod Vaikuntanathan, editors, *TCC 2022, Part I*, volume 13747 of *LNCS*, pages 294–323. Springer, Cham, November 2022.
- <span id="page-28-4"></span>[LMZ23] Jiahui Liu, Hart Montgomery, and Mark Zhandry. Another round of breaking and making quantum money: How to not build it from lattices, and more. In Carmit Hazay and Martijn Stam, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2023, Part I*, volume 14004 of *LNCS*, pages 611–638. Springer, Cham, April 2023.
- <span id="page-28-0"></span>[Lut10] Andrew Lutomirski. An online attack against wiesner's quantum money, 2010. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0256>.
- <span id="page-28-12"></span>[LZ19] Qipeng Liu and Mark Zhandry. Revisiting post-quantum Fiat-Shamir. In Alexandra Boldyreva and Daniele Micciancio, editors, *CRYPTO 2019, Part II*, volume 11693 of *LNCS*, pages 326–355. Springer, Cham, August 2019.
- <span id="page-28-10"></span>[MW04] C. Marriott and J. Watrous. Quantum arthur-merlin games. In *Proceedings. 19th IEEE Annual Conference on Computational Complexity, 2004.*, pages 275–285, 2004.
- <span id="page-28-6"></span>[Rob21] Bhaskar Roberts. Security analysis of quantum lightning. In Anne Canteaut and François-Xavier Standaert, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2021, Part II*, volume 12697 of *LNCS*, pages 562–567. Springer, Cham, October 2021.

{29}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-29-3"></span>[SW14] Amit Sahai and Brent Waters. How to use indistinguishability obfuscation: deniable encryption, and more. In David B. Shmoys, editor, *46th ACM STOC*, pages 475–484. ACM Press, May / June 2014.
- <span id="page-29-7"></span>[Tsa22] Rotem Tsabary. Candidate witness encryption from lattice techniques. In Yevgeniy Dodis and Thomas Shrimpton, editors, *CRYPTO 2022, Part I*, volume 13507 of *LNCS*, pages 535–559. Springer, Cham, August 2022.
- <span id="page-29-10"></span>[Unr16] Dominique Unruh. Computationally binding quantum commitments. In Marc Fischlin and Jean-Sébastien Coron, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2016, Part II*, volume 9666 of *LNCS*, pages 497–527. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, May 2016.
- <span id="page-29-8"></span>[VWW22] Vinod Vaikuntanathan, Hoeteck Wee, and Daniel Wichs. Witness encryption and null-IO from evasive LWE. In Shweta Agrawal and Dongdai Lin, editors, *ASI-ACRYPT 2022, Part I*, volume 13791 of *LNCS*, pages 195–221. Springer, Cham, December 2022.
- <span id="page-29-0"></span>[Wie83] Stephen Wiesner. Conjugate coding. *SIGACT News*, 15(1):78–88, January 1983.
- <span id="page-29-11"></span>[Win99] A. Winter. Coding theorem and strong converse for quantum channels. *IEEE Trans. Inf. Theor.*, 45(7):2481–2485, November 1999.
- <span id="page-29-4"></span>[WW21] Hoeteck Wee and Daniel Wichs. Candidate obfuscation via oblivious LWE sampling. In Anne Canteaut and François-Xavier Standaert, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2021, Part III*, volume 12698 of *LNCS*, pages 127–156. Springer, Cham, October 2021.
- <span id="page-29-5"></span>[WZ17] Daniel Wichs and Giorgos Zirdelis. Obfuscating compute-and-compare programs under LWE. In Chris Umans, editor, *58th FOCS*, pages 600–611. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2017.
- <span id="page-29-1"></span>[Zha19] Mark Zhandry. Quantum lightning never strikes the same state twice. In Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2019, Part III*, volume 11478 of *LNCS*, pages 408–438. Springer, Cham, May 2019.
- <span id="page-29-9"></span>[Zha20] Mark Zhandry. Schrödinger's pirate: How to trace a quantum decoder. In Rafael Pass and Krzysztof Pietrzak, editors, *TCC 2020, Part III*, volume 12552 of *LNCS*, pages 61–91. Springer, Cham, November 2020.
- <span id="page-29-6"></span>[Zha21] Mark Zhandry. White box traitor tracing. In Tal Malkin and Chris Peikert, editors, *CRYPTO 2021, Part IV*, volume 12828 of *LNCS*, pages 303–333, Virtual Event, August 2021. Springer, Cham.
- <span id="page-29-2"></span>[Zha24] Mark Zhandry. Quantum money from abelian group actions. In Venkatesan Guruswami, editor, *ITCS 2024*, volume 287, pages 101:1–101:23. LIPIcs, January / February 2024.