

{0}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-0-0"></span>Key Committing AEADs

Shay Gueron

University of Haifa and AWS

Abstract. This note describes some methods for adding a key commitment property to a generic (nonce-based) AEAD scheme. We analyze the the privacy bounds and key commitment guarantee of the resulting constructions, by expressing them in terms of the properties of the underlying AEAD scheme and the added key commitment primitive. We also offer concrete constructions for a key committing version of AES-GCM.

Keywords. AEAD, Robust encryption, key commitment.

## 1 Introduction

Recent publications (e.g., [\[3\]](#page-10-0), [\[4\]](#page-10-1)) and new shaping designs (OPAQUE [\[6\]](#page-11-0)) raised the question and interest in the relation between the result ciphertext decryption and the key that was presentably used to encrypt "the" plaintext. Reality turns out to be be sometimes counter intuitive. We focus here on symmetric key authenticated encryption with associated data (AEAD).

A nonce-based AEAD scheme receives, at encryption, a nonce N, a public header A and a message M, and uses a (secret) key (K) to produce the ciphertext C and the authentication tag T. Decryption for the input (N, A, C, T), in the context of the key K, produces either a decrypted message M if it was successfully authenticated, or an authentication failure indication ⊥. The design goal of an AEAD is to provide privacy and authenticity for two communicating parties who share a secret key K, loosely described as:

- Privacy: an adversary that sees C, T (and N, A) samples, computed over its chosen N, A, M inputs, has negligible advantage in distinguishing them from random strings with the matching lengths.
- Authenticity: if the tuple (N, A, C, T) is input to decryption, and C, T is not the output of a previous encryption of a tuple (N, A, M), then the probability that decryption does not return ⊥ is negligible.

However, binding a tuple (N, A, C, T) to a specific key is not a design goal of an AEAD: such a tuple can have non-negligible (even large) probability to pass authentication under two distinct keys K1, K2. In fact, with some AEADs it is easy for an adversary that knows (or chooses) K1, K<sup>2</sup> to compute such tuples. One example is AES-GCM where the authentication tag is the one-time-pad encryption of a non-cryptoraphic hash function.

{1}------------------------------------------------

Binding a tuple (N, A, C, T) to a key. Our goal is to tweak a given AEAD by using an additional value (KC) that we call here a Key Committing string, which serves as a visible (non-secret) key identifier. The resulting key committing scheme would encrypt a tuple N, A, M to C, T, KC, and decryption would take N, A, C, T, K<sup>C</sup> as input. The design needs to provide privacy and authenticity guarantees similar to those of the original underlying AEAD scheme, and also to prevent an adversary from finding distinct keys K1, K<sup>2</sup> and a tuple (N, A, C, T,KC) that passes authentication under both keys.

## 2 Preliminaries and notation

Let {0, 1} ∗ , {0, 1} s , {0, 1} ≤s (s ≥ 0) be, respectively, the set of all binary strings (including the empty string of length 0), the set of all binary strings of length s (bits), and the set of binary strings of length at most s.

The length of a string S is denoted by |S|. By convention, strings of bits are written in a way that the bit in the leftmost position is called the most significant bit and the bit in the rightmost position is called the least significant bit. For example, the most (least) significant bit of 10100100 is 1 (0). For S with |S| ≥ α we denote the α least significant bits of S by S[α] . For example if S = 10100100 then |S| = 8 and S[3] = 100. The string that consists of s ≥ 0 repeated zero bits is denoted by 0<sup>s</sup> (the degenerate case s = 0, is the empty string). For example 0 <sup>8</sup> = 00000000. For brevity, we also use the hexadecimal notation for strings of bits. For example, 10100100 is 0xA4 in hexadecimal notation.

The concatenation of the strings U and V is a string of |U|+|V | bits, denoted by U k V . By convention U k V has the bits of U in the |U| leftmost positions and the bits of V in the |V | rightmost positions. For example, if U = 1111 and V = 0000, then U k V = 11110000.

The symbol ⊥ indicates authentication failure. For a finite set W we denote the uniform sampling from W and assigning the value to w by w ← \$W.

### 2.1 AEAD schemes

A nonce-based Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) is a triple of algorithms, Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) associated with the key K, nonce N , message M, header A, ciphertext C, and tag T spaces, all being finite subsets of {0, 1} ∗ . With no loss of generality, we assume hereafter that N = {0, 1} ν for some nonce length ν > 0, that K = {0, 1} κ for some key length κ > 0, and that Gen is K ← \${0, 1} κ .

Encryption is a deterministic algorithm that takes input K, N, A, M ∈ K × N × A × M and outputs ciphertext and tag C, T ∈ C × T . We assume here that |C| = |M| [1](#page-0-0) . We denote the encryption operation by Enc(K, N, A, M) and the result by (C, T). Decryption is a deterministic algorithm that takes input K, N, A, C, T ∈ K × N × A × C × T and outputs either a message M ∈ M (if

<sup>1</sup>There exist AEAD schemes where |C| > |M|, but we ignore such schemes here.

{2}------------------------------------------------

tag authentication passes) or a failure symbol ⊥ (if tag authentication fails). We denote the decryption operation by Dec(K, N, A, C, T), where the output is either M or ⊥. An AEAD scheme satisfies the following: if K, N, A, M ∈ K × N × A × M and Enc(K, N, A, M) = (C, T), then Dec(K, N, A, C, T) = M (in particular, 6= ⊥).

A random nonce (randomized) AEAD scheme is defined analogously to a nonce-based AEAD scheme above, with the following difference: Enc takes only K, A, M as input, generates N ← \$ N and outputs C, T N.

Payloads. The AEAD definition captures also the case where the header / message is a "payload" divided (logically) to multiple chunks, and the nonce (input or generated) may also be divided to multiple chunks that are processed independently. The ciphertext and tag are divided to multiple chunks accordingly. In such cases, it is assumed that Π is used in a context that defines, unambiguously, how inputs (N, A, M) (to Enc) and inputs (N, A, C, T) (to Dec) are parsed. Constraints on the uniqueness of the nonce(s) can also be imposed.

Example 1 (Payload encryption with AES-GCM). Let Π be a "payload encryption" scheme using the standard AES-GCM. The payload, (N, A, M), input to encryption, is parsed as: v header/plaintext chunks A = a<sup>1</sup> k a<sup>2</sup> k . . . k av, M = m<sup>1</sup> k m<sup>2</sup> k . . . k mv, and v (sub-)nonces N = n<sup>1</sup> k n<sup>2</sup> k . . . k n<sup>v</sup> where |n<sup>j</sup> | = 96, j = 1, . . . , v, with the constraint that n1, n2, . . . , n<sup>v</sup> are distinct. It is assumed that the context and input/output format for Π defines unambiguous slicing to chunks and nonces. The encryption process uses a key K, computes (c<sup>j</sup> , t<sup>j</sup> ) = AES-GCM(K, n<sup>j</sup> , a<sup>j</sup> , m<sup>j</sup> ), j = 1, . . . , v, and outputs C = c<sup>1</sup> k c<sup>2</sup> k . . . k cv, and T = t<sup>1</sup> k t<sup>2</sup> k . . . k tv, in an agreed format. We point out that the message format of AWS Encryption SDK [\[1\]](#page-10-2) is (in some configurations) also an example for encrypting a payload.

### 2.2 Advantage against a scheme

Let K = {0, 1} κ (key space) and IN , OUT (input/output space) be finite subsets of {0, 1} ∗ . Let Scheme : K × IN → OUT be a function/procedure and denote its operation over input K ∈ K and U ∈ IN by Scheme(K, U) = Res. An oracle OScheme for Scheme is an entity that chooses, uniformly at random, a challenge bit b and a key K ∈ K, and answers queries from IN ("legitimate" queries hereafter). For a query U ∈ IN , OScheme computes Scheme(K, U) = Res, generates R\$ ← \${0, 1} |Res| , and returns Res if b = 1 and R\$ if b = 0.

An adversary C against Scheme is a Polynomial Time Probabilistic (PPT) adaptive algorithm that has access to OScheme, and a budget for (say q) queries to its oracle OScheme and some run time tC. C submits at most q legitimate and nonredundant queries (e.g., no repeated queries), receives OScheme's responses, and outputs a bit b 0 . The distinguishing (Real-or-Random) advantage of C against Scheme is

<span id="page-2-0"></span>
$$Adv_{\mathsf{Scheme}}(\mathbf{C}) = \left| Prob(b' = 1 \mid b = 1) - Prob(b' = 1 \mid b = 0) \right| \tag{1}$$

{3}------------------------------------------------

A randomized scheme draws a uniformly random value V (of a specified length), involves V in the computation of Scheme(K, U) = Res, and returns Res and V .

Multi-key setting. The notion of oracle and advantage can be generalized to the following multi-key setting where OScheme samples q keys K<sup>j</sup> ← \$ K, j = 1, . . . , q, and uses K<sup>j</sup> for a query of the form (j, U) that C submits (j ≤ q) as follows: computes Scheme(K<sup>j</sup> , U) = Res, generates R\$ ← \${0, 1} |Res| , and returns Res if b = 1 and R\$ if b = 0. As in the single-key scenario, C outputs a bit b 0 , and the advantage is as in [\(1\)](#page-2-0). The case q = 1 degenerates to the standard single-key scenario. A special case is the "fresh-multi-key" setting where a new key from the list K1, . . . , K<sup>q</sup> is used for every call/query, i.e., queries do not specify explicitly the key to be used (the keys can be generated a priori or per call — "online"). Note that responses to (at most) q queries that C may submit involve at most q distinct keys because there could be colliding values among K1, . . . , Kq. The probability that the q keys are distinct is at least 1 − q <sup>2</sup>/2 1+κ .

Remark 1 (Key guessing). Independently of oracle queries, C may compute ("offline") Scheme with TScheme chosen keys (and inputs). If a guessed key equals to a key that OScheme actually used in the queries, then C wins. With at most q different keys for OScheme, the key guessing probability is at most (TScheme ·q)/2 κ .

## 3 Constructing a key committing AEAD

### 3.1 Construction

Let Π = (Gen, Enc, Dec) be a nonce-based AEAD scheme defined with the spaces K = {0, 1} κ , A, N , M, C, T for some κ > 0. We construct the schemes DeriveKeyΠ and CommitKeyΠ over Π.

The constructions are defined with the positive parameters κ0, ν1, c where, with no loss of generality, κ<sup>0</sup> ≥ max (κ, c), and the two distinct public strings (labels) L1, L<sup>2</sup> with equal lengths |L1| = |L2| = `L. Denote ` = `<sup>L</sup> + ν1. Let

$$F(K,L): \{0,1\}^{\kappa_0} \times \{0,1\}^{\leq (\ell_L + \nu_1)} \to \{0,1\}^{\max(\kappa,c)}$$

be a pseudorandom function keyed K ∈ {0, 1} κ<sup>0</sup> . Both schemes use a key K ∈ {0, 1} κ<sup>0</sup> , called "main key", and their key generation procedure is K ← \${0, 1} κ<sup>0</sup> . The input to encryption is a legitimate payload (N, A, M) ∈ N × A × M (i.e., legitimate input to Π encryption), and possibly a nonce N<sup>1</sup> ∈ {0, 1} ν1 .

DeriveKeyΠ is an AEAD that derives an encryption key K<sup>E</sup> from K and possibly a nonce N<sup>1</sup> ∈ {0, 1} ν1 , uses K<sup>E</sup> to encrypt the payload with Enc and outputs the resulting C, T. CommitKeyΠ extends DeriveKeyΠ by deriving an additional value K<sup>C</sup> ∈ {0, 1} c from K and possibly a nonce N<sup>1</sup> ∈ {0, 1} ν1 . It outputs C, T, KC, where KC, is hereafter called a Key Committing string, serves as a non-confidential key identifier.

We use different ways to derive K<sup>E</sup> and K<sup>C</sup> from the main key (K), with or without the nonce N1, as follows:

{4}------------------------------------------------

```
Fixed: KE = F[κ](K, L1); or nonce-based KE = F[κ](K, L1 k N1);
Fixed: KC = F[c](K, L2); or nonce-based KC = F[c](K, L2 k N1);
```

(we use F[c](K, L2) to denote F(K, L2) [c] ) and name the four corresponding CommitKeyΠ (two for DeriveKeyΠ) flavors by:

```
Type I) fixed KE and fixed KC;
Type II) nonce-based KE and fixed KC;
Type III) fixed KE and nonce-based KC;
Type IV) nonce-based KE and nonce-based KC.
```

DeriveKeyΠ decryption is obvious. CommitKeyΠ decryption uses the input K<sup>C</sup> to verify the main key K. The flows are illustrated in Figure [1](#page-5-0) (top). The different flavors of CommitKeyΠ are associated with different incremental computational (computing F) and bandwidth overheads on top of CommitKeyΠ and on top of Π. Figure [1](#page-5-0) (bottom) describes these different overheads.

Remark 2 (Randomized versions). The randomized version of CommitKeyΠ (DeriveKeyΠ) samples N<sup>1</sup> ← \${0, 1} <sup>ν</sup><sup>1</sup> during Enc and includes N<sup>1</sup> as part of the encryption output. Nonce collision probability across q messages is at most q <sup>2</sup>/2 1+ν<sup>1</sup> .

Remark 3 (The CommitKeyΠ constructions). CommitKeyΠ can be viewed as either an enhancement of Π (adding a derivation of K<sup>E</sup> and K<sup>C</sup> to Π) or an enhancement of CommitKeyΠ (adding (only) the derivation of K<sup>C</sup> to DeriveKeyΠ).

Remark 4 (Domain separation). The requirements L<sup>1</sup> 6= L<sup>2</sup> and |L1| = |L2| implies that the equal length values L<sup>1</sup> k N<sup>1</sup> and L<sup>2</sup> k N<sup>1</sup> are distinct for all distinct values of N1. This guarantees domain separation for the invocations of F(K, ·) in the derivation of K<sup>E</sup> and KC. Different ways to secure this domain separation can be used analogously.

Using the different CommitKeyΠ flavors. Comparing to the direct use of Π, DeriveKeyΠ is a method for extending the lifetime of a key, using one nonce-based key derivation (see, e.g., [\[5\]](#page-11-1) and [\[2\]](#page-10-3)). CommitKeyΠ Type I (over Π) and type II (over CommitKeyΠ) carry the lowest incremental overheads due to using a fixed key identifier (KC) for the main key K. These are useful under the assumption that associating groups of visible encrypted payloads (N, C, T, KC, N1) with the same main key does not violate the privacy requirements of the communication (and hence, a fixed key identifier is acceptable). For example, this is the case when a main key is used for only one session between the communicating parties. Deriving a nonce-dependent K<sup>C</sup> value, as in Types III and IV, prevents this association, and comes at some incremental cost (see Figure [1\)](#page-5-0). It is useful with multiple main keys used across multiple payloads, when bundling encrypted payloads under the same main key is undesired.

{5}------------------------------------------------

```
CommitKey\Pi Encryption
Input: (K, N_1, N, A, M)
|K| = \kappa_0, |N_1| = \nu_1, N \in \mathcal{N}, A \in \mathcal{A}, M \in \mathcal{M}

1. \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{E} = F_{[\kappa]}(K, L_1) (fixed) or \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{E} = F_{[\kappa]}(K, L_1 \parallel N_1) (nonce-based)
2. \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C} = F_{[c]}(K, L_2) (fixed) or \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C} = F_{[c]}(K, L_2 \parallel N_1) (nonce-based)
3. C, T = Enc(\mathsf{K}_\mathsf{E}, N, A, M)
4. Output: C, T, \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C}

CommitKey\Pi Decryption Input: (K, N_1, N, A, C, T, \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C})
|K| = \kappa_0, |N_1| = \nu_1, N \in \mathcal{N}, A \in \mathcal{A}, C \in \mathcal{C}, T \in \mathcal{T}, |\mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C}| = c
1. r_1 = 0, r_2 = 0
2. \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{E}' = F_{[\kappa]}(K, L_1) (fixed) or \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{E}' = F_{[\kappa]}(K, L_1 \parallel N_1) (nonce-based)
3. \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C}' = F_{[c]}(K, L_2) (fixed) or \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C}' = F_{[c]}(K, L_2 \parallel N_1) (nonce-based)
4. If \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C}' = \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C} then r_1 = 1
5. If Dec(\mathsf{K}_\mathsf{E}', N, A, C, T) = M (i.e., \neq \bot) then r_2 = 1
6. If r_1 \cdot r_2 = 0 then output \bot; else output M
```

| $CommitKey \varPi$ | K <sub>E</sub> /K <sub>C</sub> | Calls to $F$           | Communication   | Communication |
|--------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------|-----------------|---------------|
| Type               | derivation                     | to encrypt             | overhead over   | overhead over |
|                    |                                | (decrypt)  q  messages | DeriveKey $\Pi$ | $\Pi$         |
| I                  | Fixed/Fixed                    | 1 + 1                  | c               | c             |
| II                 | Nonce/Fixed                    | q+1                    | c               | $c + \nu_1$   |
| III                | Fixed/Nonce                    | 1+q                    | $c + \nu_1$     | $c + \nu_2$   |
| IV                 | Nonce/Nonce                    | 2q                     | $c + \nu_1$     | $c + \nu_1$   |

Fig. 1: **Top:** CommitKey $\Pi$  (and DeriveKey $\Pi$ ) encryption and decyption. DeriveKey $\Pi$  encryption is obtained (from CommitKey $\Pi$  encryption) by skipping Step 2, and omitting  $K_{\mathsf{C}}$  from the output. DeriveKey $\Pi$  decryption is obtained (from CommitKey $\Pi$  decryption) by ignoring  $r_2$  (setting  $r_2 = 1$ ),  $K_{\mathsf{C}}$ , and skipping Steps 3 and 4. Four flavors of CommitKey $\Pi$  are defined: Type I (fixed  $K_{\mathsf{E}}$ , fixed  $K_{\mathsf{C}}$ ), Type II (nonce-based  $K_{\mathsf{E}}$  fixed  $K_{\mathsf{C}}$ ), Type III (fixed  $K_{\mathsf{E}}$ , nonce-based  $K_{\mathsf{C}}$ ), Type IV (nonce-based  $K_{\mathsf{E}}$  and nonce-based  $K_{\mathsf{C}}$ ). For a randomized version,  $N_1$  (and possibly N) is generated uniformly at random from  $\{01\}^{\nu_1}$  (instead of being part of the input) during CommitKey $\Pi$  (DeriveKey $\Pi$ ) encryption. In such that case, the generated value is added to the encryption output.

**Bottom:** The overheads involved with the different flavors of CommitKey $\Pi$ , when encrypting (decrypting) q payloads with the main key K.

{6}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-6-0"></span>3.2 Simple instantiation examples

We provide an example of simple instantiation for F, for the case where  $\kappa_0 = \kappa = 256$ . Assume that  $\nu_1 \leq 256$ . Set c = 256. Define

$$F(K,L) = SHA256(K \parallel L)$$

For concreteness, define some (fixed) label L0 of length 48 bits (6 bytes). A possible example is L0 = 0x436f6d6d6974 (=Commit in hexadecimal notation). Set:

```
For Type I: L_1 = L0 \parallel 0x01 \parallel 0x01, L_2 = L0 \parallel 0x01 \parallel 0x02
For Type II: L_1 = L0 \parallel 0x02 \parallel 0x01, L_2 = L0 \parallel 0x02 \parallel 0x02
For Type III: L_1 = L0 \parallel 0x03 \parallel 0x01, L_2 = L0 \parallel 0x03 \parallel 0x02
For Type IV: L_1 = L0 \parallel 0x04 \parallel 0x01, L_2 = L0 \parallel 0x04 \parallel 0x02
```

Note that the CommitKey $\Pi$  flavors are encoded in the labels  $L_1$ ,  $L_2$ . With this choice,  $|K \parallel L_1 \parallel N_1| = |K \parallel L_2 \parallel N_1| \le 576$  so deriving  $K_E$  and  $K_C$  require (for each computation) at most two calls to the SHA256 compression function. For Type I, computing  $K_E$  and  $K_C$  invokes the SHA256 compression function only once. For Type II, computing  $K_C$  involves calling the SHA256 compression function only once (and twice for computing  $K_E$ ).

A Type I key committing AES-GCM Let  $\Pi$  be the standard AES-GCM scheme with parameters  $\kappa = 256$ ,  $\nu = 96$  (and block size n = 128). Select parameter values  $\kappa_0 = 256$  (=  $\kappa$ ), c = 256,  $\ell = \ell_L = 48$  (there is no  $N_1$  nonce, so effectively  $\nu_1 = 0$ ) and consider a Type I scheme. Define  $F(K, L) = \text{SHA256}(K \parallel L)$  and call it with  $L_1 = L0 \parallel 0x01 \parallel 0x01$  and  $L_2 = L0 \parallel 0x01 \parallel 0x02$  where L0 = 0x41455347434d (=AESGCM in hexadecimal notation). The resulting CommitKey $\Pi$  (Type I) is a "Robust Key AES-GCM" denoted here, for brevity, by RK-AES-GCM. At setup, RK-AES-GCM encryption requires AES key expansion for the encryption key  $K_E$ , and also one computation of  $AES(K_E, 0^{128})$  for the GHASH key. This setup overhead is the same as the setup for AES-GCM.

### <span id="page-6-1"></span>4 Analysis of CommitKey $\Pi$

Our analysis of CommitKey $\Pi$  consists of two parts: a) upper bounding the privacy and authenticity guarantees of CommitKey $\Pi$ , compared to the underlying scheme  $\Pi$  (or to DeriveKey $\Pi$ ); b) analysis for the key commitment property that CommitKey $\Pi$  offers.

Upper bounds for the ciphertext indistinguishability of CommitKey $\Pi$ . Theorem 1 is stated for CommitKey $\Pi$  Type IV, where we assume, for convenience, that  $\kappa = c$ . The statements for Types I, II, III are analogous.

We start with a few definitions. The oracle for  $\Pi$  encryption is denoted by  $\mathcal{O}_{\Pi}$ . A privacy adversary  $\mathbf{A}$  against (the privacy of)  $\Pi$  submits encryption queries of the form (N, A, M) to  $\mathcal{O}_{\Pi}$ , and its advantage is denoted  $Adv_{\Pi}^{priv}(\mathbf{A})$ .

{7}------------------------------------------------

In the fresh-multi-key scenario, the oracle is denoted by  $\mathcal{O}_{mk-\Pi}$  and the advantage is denoted by  $Adv_{mk-\Pi}^{priv}(\mathbf{A})$ . The oracle for F is denoted by  $\mathcal{O}_F$ . An adversary  $\mathbf{B}$  against the PRF security of F submits queries of length  $\ell_L + \nu_1$  to  $\mathcal{O}_F$  and its advantage is denoted by  $Adv_F^{PRF}(\mathbf{B})$ . The oracle for CommitKey $\Pi$  encryption is denoted by  $\mathcal{O}_{\text{CommitKey}\Pi}$ . An adversary  $\mathbf{A}$  against (the privacy of) CommitKey $\Pi$  submits queries of the form  $(N_1, N, A, M)$  and receives either C, T,  $\mathsf{K}_C$  or  $R_{\$} \leftarrow {\$}\{0,1\}^{|M|+\tau+c}$ , depending on  $\mathcal{O}_{\text{CommitKey}\Pi}$ 's challenge bit. Its advantage is denoted  $Adv_{\text{CommitKey}\Pi}^{priv}(\mathbf{A})$ . The scheme CommitKey $\Pi'$  is a "fresh key" analogue to CommitKey $\Pi$ . Its oracle is denoted by  $\mathcal{O}_{\text{CommitKey}\Pi'}$ , and it selects uniformly random  $\mathsf{K}_{\mathsf{E}}$  and  $\mathsf{K}_{\mathsf{C}}$  values for every encryption query. A privacy adversary  $\mathbf{A}$  submits encryption queries of the form  $(N_1, N, A, M)$  to  $\mathcal{O}_{\text{CommitKey}\Pi'}$ , and its advantage is denoted by  $Adv_{\text{CommitKey}\Pi'}^{priv}(\mathbf{A})$ . Note that from the indistinguishability viewpoint, CommitKey $\Pi'$  is essentially equivalent to  $\Pi$  in the fresh-multi-key setting (the uniformly random  $\mathsf{K}_{\mathsf{C}}$  value appended to C and T has no impact on the distinguishing advantage).

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Theorem 1** (CommitKey $\Pi$  Privacy). Let  $\mathbf{A}$  be a privacy adversary against CommitKey $\Pi$  Type IV. Let q,  $\ell_A$ ,  $\ell_M$ ,  $\ell_{payload}$  be non-negative parameters, and assume, for convenience, that  $\kappa = c$ . Assume that  $\mathbf{A}$  submits at most q encryption queries of the form  $(N_1, N, A, M)$ , without repeating  $N_1$  values, such that  $|A| \leq \ell_A$ ,  $|M| \leq \ell_M$ , and the total encrypted payload, across all queries, is at most  $\ell_{payload}$ . Then, there exist: a) an adversary  $\mathbf{B}$  against the PRF security of F that makes at most 2q queries of length  $\ell_L + \nu_1$  to its oracle; b) a privacy adversary  $\mathbf{A}'$  against  $\Pi$  in the fresh-multi-key setting, that makes at most q queries of the form (N, A, M) with  $|A| \leq \ell_A$  and  $|M| \leq \ell_M$ , and overall encrypted payload of at most  $\ell_{payload}$ , such that

$$Adv_{\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi}^{priv}(\mathbf{A}) \le Adv_F^{PRF}(\mathbf{B}) + Adv_{mk-\Pi}^{priv}(\mathbf{A}')$$
 (2)

If **A** runs in  $t_{\mathbf{A}}$  steps, then **B** runs in  $O(t_{\mathbf{A}}) + \Delta_1$  steps and **A**' runs in  $O(t_{\mathbf{A}}) + \Delta_2$  steps where: a)  $\Delta_1$  is the number of steps required to simulate **A**' (at most q) queries with a given/known key; b)  $\Delta_2$  is the number of steps required generate (at most) q random values of length c.

*Proof.* We first build an adversary **B** against the PRF security of F, running against  $\mathcal{O}_F$ . **B** runs **A**. For every query  $(N_1, N, A, M)$  that **A** issues, **B** queries  $\mathcal{O}_F$  with the values  $L_1 \parallel N_1$  and  $L_2 \parallel N_1$  to obtain the response  $X \in \{0, 1\}^{\kappa}$  and  $Y \in \{0, 1\}^c$ . Subsequently, **B** computes Enc(X, N, A, M) = (C, T) and returns C, T, Y to **A**. When **A** outputs a bit b', **B** outputs b' and stops. Denote the sequence of queries issued by **A** until it outputs b' by SEQ, and let  $P_{\$}$  be the probability that **A** outputs b' = 1 if SEQ is replied with uniformly random responses (of the expected lengths). We have, by the definition

$$Adv_F^{PRF}(\mathbf{B}) = |Prob(b' = 1|\ b = 1) - Prob(b' = 1|\ b = 0)|$$
 (3)

Note that if b=1, the responses returned to **A** simulate (real) responses to SEQ from  $\mathcal{O}_{\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi}$  for  $\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi$ . If b=0, these responses simulate (real) responses to SEQ from  $\mathcal{O}_{\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi'}$  (in the fresh-multi-key setting). Therefore,

{8}------------------------------------------------

$$\begin{aligned} \left| Prob(b' = 1 \mid b = 1) - Prob(b' = 1 \mid b = 0) \right| = \\ \left| Prob(b' = 1 \mid b = 1) - P_{\$} - \left( Prob(b' = 1 \mid b = 0) - P_{\$} \right) \right| \ge \\ Adv_{\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi}^{priv}(\mathbf{A}) - Adv_{\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi'}^{priv}(\mathbf{A}) \end{aligned} \tag{4}$$

and so, we have

$$Adv_{\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi}^{priv}(\mathbf{A}) \le Adv_F^{PRF}(\mathbf{B}) + Adv_{\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi'}^{priv}(\mathbf{A})$$
 (5)

We now build an adversary  $\mathbf{A}'$  against  $\mathcal{O}_{mk-\Pi}$  (i.e.,  $\Pi$  in the fresh-multi-key setting).  $\mathbf{A}'$  runs  $\mathbf{A}$ . For every query  $(N_1, N, A, M)$  that  $\mathbf{A}$  issues,  $\mathbf{A}'$  queries  $\mathcal{O}_{mk-\Pi}$  with (N, A, M) and obtains the response C, T. It then generates a fresh value  $Y \leftarrow {}_{\$}\{0,1\}^c$  and returns C, T, Y to  $\mathbf{A}$ . When  $\mathbf{A}$  outputs a bit b',  $\mathbf{A}'$  outputs b' and stops. Since Y is a uniformly random value, we have

$$Adv^{priv}_{\mathsf{CommitKey}\Pi'}(\mathbf{A}) = Adv^{priv}_{mk-\Pi}(\mathbf{A}')$$

The number of steps that  $\mathbf{B}$  and  $\mathbf{A}'$  run, and the lengths of the queries, are clear from the above description.

The Key commitment property of CommitKey $\Pi$ . The CommitKey $\Pi$  construction is designed to address the following scenario:

A polynomial time Adversary A'' against the key identification string  $K_C$  chooses distinct main keys  $K_1$ ,  $K_2$ , and a tuple  $(N_1, N, A, C, T, K_C)$ . It wins if  $(N_1, N, A, C, T, K_C)$  passes the CommitKey $\Pi$  authentication under  $K_1$  and also under  $K_2$ , as main keys.

Claim. If adversary  $\mathbf{A}''$  produces a winning tuple  $(N_1, N, A, C, T, \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C})$  for keys  $K_1 \neq K_2$ , then  $\mathbf{A}''$  has found a collision (on  $\mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C}$ ), i.e.,

<span id="page-8-0"></span>
$$F_{[c]}(K_1, L_2 \parallel N_1) = F_{[c]}(K_2, L_2 \parallel N_1)$$
(6)

Remark 5. It may be possible (or even easy) to find a tuple  $(N_1, N, A, C, T, K_C)$  and two main keys  $K_1 \neq K_2$ , such that (N, A, C, T) passes  $\Pi$  authentication under the  $K_E$  values that are derived from  $K_1$  and from  $K_2$ . This ability depends on the properties of the underlying AEAD  $\Pi$ . The introduction of  $K_C$  (as in CommitKey $\Pi$ ) adds the requirement (6) for the full tuple  $(N_1, N, A, C, T, K_C)$ .

Remark 6. We may relax the requirement on  $\mathbf{A}''$  and allow a choice of different  $N_1$  values. Here,  $\mathbf{A}''$  can choose distinct main keys  $K_1$ ,  $K_2$ , and two tuples  $(N_1, N, A, C, T, \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C})$ ,  $(N_1', N, A, C, T, \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C})$ .  $\mathbf{A}''$  wins if  $(N_1, N, A, C, T, \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C})$  passes the CommitKey $\Pi$  authentication under  $K_1$  as the main key, and  $(N_1', N, A, C, T, \mathsf{K}_\mathsf{C})$  passes the CommitKey $\Pi$  authentication under  $K_2$  as the main key. If that case, to win,  $\mathbf{A}''$  needs to find a collision

<span id="page-8-1"></span>
$$F_{[c]}(K_1, L_2 \parallel N_1) = F_{[c]}(K_2, L_2 \parallel N_1') \tag{7}$$

{9}------------------------------------------------

Collision resistance requirements from F. To meet the CommitKey $\Pi$  design goal, the pseudorandom function  $F(\cdot,\cdot)$  should be chosen in a way that an adversary with an assumed (reasonable) compute time has a negligible probability to produce a *collision* of type (6), even with its (adversarial) chosen keys. In particular, c should be sufficiently large so that brute force attempts until a collision occurs is practically unfeasible. Note that the choice  $F(K,L) = \text{SHA256}(K \parallel L)$  (shown in Section 3.2) is based on a collision resistant hash function. It satisfies the requirement, under the standard assumption on SHA256. Note also that SHA256 prevents even a collision of the type (7), under the same assumption.

#### 5 Discussion

We give an example for using the bounds of Theorem 1 for a scenario of interest. Consider the case where  $\kappa_0 = \kappa = c = 256$  and  $\Pi$  is the standard AES-GCM (with a 96-bit nonce). Suppose that a main key K is used  $q \leq 2^{32}$  times, with different nonces  $N_{1_1}, \ldots N_{1_q}$  and derived values  $K_{\mathsf{E}1_1} \ldots K_{\mathsf{E}1_q}$  and  $K_{\mathsf{C}1_1} \ldots K_{\mathsf{C}1_q}$ . We assume that all the derived values are distinct. Every nonce from  $N_{1_1}, \ldots$  $N_{1_q}$  (and the respective derived key is used for encrypting a payload with the following characteristics. Payload j consists of  $\bar{q}_i$  chunks of data. Every chunk is encrypted with AES-GCM under the key  $K_{E_i}$ , using a different AES-GCM nonce (N). The total number of blocks encrypted with  $K_{E_j}$  is  $\sigma_j$ . For CommitKey $\Pi$ , we make the assumption that AES behaves like an ideal cipher in the multi key scenario, and ignore the PRP advantage of distinguishing AES from a random permutation on  $\{0,1\}^{128}$ . With probability at most  $(2q)^2/2^{\kappa+1}$ , we may assume that the q values of  $K_E$  and the q values of  $K_C$  are distinct. With  $T_0$  key guessing attempts (for either K or a derive  $K_E$ ), correct guessing succeeds with probability  $(T_0q)/2^{\kappa}$ . Therefore, we can upper bound the advantage of a privacy adversary against CommitKey $\Pi$  by

<span id="page-9-0"></span>
$$\max Adv_F^{PRF} + \frac{4q^2}{2^{\kappa+1}} + T_0 \frac{q}{2^{\kappa}} + \sum_{j=1}^{q} \frac{(\sigma_j + \bar{q}_j + 1)^2}{2^{129}}$$
 (8)

where  $\max Adv_F^{PRF}$  is the maximum distinguishing advantage for F, with 2q queries.

We set the limits  $q \leq 2^{32}$ ,  $\bar{q}_j = 2^{30}$  and  $\sigma_j = 2^{30}$ , j = 1, ..., q, and assume  $T_0 \leq 2^{96}$ . This implies  $(\sigma_j + \bar{q}_j + 1) < 2^{32}$ , and consequently, the dominant term in (8) is at most  $2^{32} \times 2^{-65} = 2^{-33}$ . With a judicious choice for a PRF F (e.g.,  $F(K, L) = \text{SHA256}(K \parallel L)$  as in Section 3.2), we can assume that the PRF distinguishing advantage with 2q queries (for F) is or order  $O(4q^2/2^{257})$ . The amount of data that can be encrypted using CommitKey $\Pi$  and a main key K, is up to  $2^{60}$  blocks (i.e.,  $2^{64}$  bytes), and the indistinguishability bound is at most  $O(2^{-32})$ .

**Design rationale and alternatives.** We require CommitKey $\Pi$  to use  $\kappa_0 \ge \kappa$  in order to keep a key hierarchy: the derived encryption keys ( $K_E$ ) are not longer

{10}------------------------------------------------

than the main key. Similarly, we require κ<sup>0</sup> ≥ K<sup>C</sup> and set K<sup>C</sup> to be sufficiently long in order to make brute force collision and pre-image search unfeasible. The power-of-two choice κ<sup>0</sup> = κ = c = 256 seems adequate and convenient. However, it is also reasonable to settle with c = 192 or 160 to reduce the overhead of CommitKeyΠ encryption. We point out that defining F(K, L) = H(K k L) with any NIST standard cryptographic hash function H, with a sufficiently long digest, is an acceptable choice (the example in Section [3.2](#page-6-0) uses SHA256). This makes it is easy to choose a main key (K) of a desired length, and also, under standard assumptions on the hash function, to truncate the digests to c or κ bits, as needed. Note that it is implicitly assumed here that for this usage, H is invoked with equal-length arguments. It is also possible to choose other designs where F(K, L) = HMAC(K, L) or F(K, L) = HKDF(K, L). Due to their construction that is based on a collision resistant hash function, these options also satisfy the collision resistance requirement mentioned in Section [4](#page-6-1) (even with chosen keys). In such cases, the requirement for equal-length arguments can be relaxed. We point out that CommitKeyΠ does not require that the checks for T and for K<sup>C</sup> (see Steps 4, 5, 6 in Figure [1\)](#page-5-0) are executed in constant time or in a particular order. An implementation can choose to return ⊥ as soon as one comparison does not match.

Finally, we point out a theoretical difference between the CommitKeyΠ constructions of Type I and of Type IV. For Type I, the collision analogous to [\(6\)](#page-8-0) for Type IV, is F[c](K1, L2) = F[c](K2, L2) (i.e., no N<sup>1</sup> nonce is involved). This means that for Type I, a selection of a pair K<sup>1</sup> K<sup>2</sup> already determines the existence of (or lack of) a collision. By contrast, for an adversary A<sup>00</sup> for Type IV CommitKeyΠ, can choose a pair K<sup>1</sup> K2, and then still have the freedom to select a value N<sup>1</sup> that yields a collision of the form [\(6\)](#page-8-0).

Acknowledgments. This research was supported by: NSF-BSF Grant 2018640; The Israel Science Foundation (grant No. 3380/19); The BIU Center for Research in Applied Cryptography and Cyber Security, and the Center for Cyber Law and Policy at the University of Haifa, both in conjunction with the Israel National Cyber Bureau in the Prime Minister's Office.

## References

- <span id="page-10-2"></span>1. AWS: AWS Encryption SDK. https://docs.aws.amazon.[com/encryption-sdk/](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/encryption-sdk/latest/developer-guide/message-format.html) [latest/developer-guide/message-format](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/encryption-sdk/latest/developer-guide/message-format.html).html (2020)
- <span id="page-10-3"></span>2. Campagna, M., Gueron, S.: Key management systems at the cloud scale. Cryptogr. 3(3), 23 (2019). [https://doi.org/10.3390/cryptography3030023,](https://doi.org/10.3390/cryptography3030023) [https://doi](https://doi.org/10.3390/cryptography3030023).org/ 10.[3390/cryptography3030023](https://doi.org/10.3390/cryptography3030023)
- <span id="page-10-0"></span>3. Dodis, Y., Grubbs, P., Ristenpart, T., Woodage, J.: Fast message franking: From invisible salamanders to encryptment. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/016 (2019), [https://eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/016).iacr.org/2019/016
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>4. Grubbs, P., Lu, J., Ristenpart, T.: Message franking via committing authenticated encryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2017/664 (2017), [https:](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/664) //eprint.iacr.[org/2017/664](https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/664)

{11}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-11-1"></span>5. Gueron, S., Lindell, Y.: Better bounds for block cipher modes of operation via nonce-based key derivation. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security. p. 1019–1036. CCS '17, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA (2017). [https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3133992,](https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3133992) https://doi.org/10.[1145/3133956](https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3133992).3133992
- <span id="page-11-0"></span>6. Krawczyk, H.: The OPAQUE Asymmetric PAKE Protocol; draft-krawczykcfrg-opaque-03. https://tools.ietf.[org/html/draft-krawczyk-cfrg-opaque-](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-krawczyk-cfrg-opaque-03#section-3.1.1)[03#section-3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-krawczyk-cfrg-opaque-03#section-3.1.1).1.1 (2020)