

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Ultra-Short Multivariate Public Key Signatures – with Public Keys of Degree 2 –

Jacques Patarin<sup>1</sup> , Gilles Macario-Rat<sup>2</sup> , Maxime Bros<sup>3</sup> , and Eliane Koussa<sup>1</sup>

- <sup>1</sup> Versailles Laboratory of Mathematics, UVSQ, CNRS, University of Paris-Saclay jpatarin@club-internet.fr, ejkoussa@outlook.com
- <sup>2</sup> Orange, Orange Gardens, 46 avenue de la R´epublique, F-92320 Chˆatillon, France gilles.macariorat@orange.com
  - <sup>3</sup> University of Limoges, CNRS, XLIM, UMR 7252, F-87000 Limoges, France maxime.bros@unilim.fr

Abstract. In this paper, we study and construct multivariate schemes with "ultra-short" signatures. We focus on the classic case where the public key is a set of multivariate polynomials of degree 2.

To design ultra-short signature schemes, we consider that signing a message and verifying a signature could require up to 1 minute of computation on a modern personal computer. Shorter time could be considered but at the cost of a few additional bits in the signatures, more generally, a trade-off may be found between computation time and signature size, depending on the applications one is targeting.

Despite the fact that a time of 1 minute is far bigger than the time required by general purpose multivariate-based signature schemes, such as Rainbow, GeMMS, and Quartz, it enables us to reach ultra-short signature lengths; for instance, around 70 bit-long signatures for a security of 80 bits.

In a first part, we describe generic and specific attacks against multivariate public key signature schemes and use them to derive the minimal parameters that an ultra-short signature scheme could have.

In a second part, we give explicit ultra-short signature schemes with security in 80, 90 and 100 bits.

In order to construct these signatures scheme, we use "nude HFE" (i.e. the classic HFE algorithm, without perturbations) and the new projection HFE algorithm described in [18].

Recent progress has been made on attacking the MinRank problem, which is strongly connected to HFE, in [2], and on attacking HFEv− in [24]. These potential threats against multivariate signature schemes have been taken into account in this paper.

Keywords: Public Key Cryptography, Multivariate Cryptography, HFE, Ultra-Short Signature.

# 1 Introduction

General context. At present, the RSA cryptosystem is the most used public key signature algorithm. According to the current best (non-quantum) factor

{1}------------------------------------------------

ization algorithm (General Number Field Sieve [7]) whose complexity is subexponential, to reach a security of 80 bits (which means that an attacker would need at least 2<sup>80</sup> operations to recover the secret), one requires a public key of more than 1024 bits, and therefore the length of the signature is at least 1024 bits. Similarly, for a security of 128 bits, the length of an RSA signature is greater than 3000 bits. Using elliptic curves, signatures are smaller: about 240 or 320 bits for a security in 80 bits, and about 384 or 512 for a security in 128 bits.

Nowadays, many cryptographers focus more on post-quantum cryptography, that is to say on crypto-systems that could resist attacks performed by quantum computers. There are mainly five kinds of post-quantum cryptography: multivariate, isogeny, code, lattice and hash-based cryptography. Since we deal with multivariate-based cryptography, our schemes might resist quantum attacks, however this is not the topic of this paper which focuses only on attacks with non-quantum computers.

Multivariate-based cryptography started in 1988 with the C\* algorithm of Matsumoto and Imai [17]. It was later broken by Patarin ([19]) who then suggested a way to fix it with the Hidden Field Equations (HFE) scheme in 1999 ([20]). Following it, a lot of variations of this scheme were proposed, for instance HFEv− (also in [21]), Quartz [22], and GeMSS [8].

At present, multivariate cryptography is an active research field since seven multivariate signature schemes have been submitted to the NIST Post-Quantum standardization process in 2018 and two of them (Rainbow and GeMSS) made it to the third round (including Alternate Candidates). Rainbow [11] is a multivariate signature scheme designed by Ding from the "Unbalanced Oil and Vinegar" scheme [16]. With multivariate-based cryptography, it seems possible to have short signatures, for example for a 128 bit security level, Rainbow provides 528 bit-long signatures, and GeMSS 256 bit-long signatures; for a 80 bit security level, Quartz provides 128 bit-long signatures.

In this paper, we will obtain even shorter signatures.

Our security model. In this article, we present multivariate ultra-short signature schemes which are secure in a security model where the cost of verifying a signature and computing the hash value of a chosen message are non-negligible.

More precisely, if an adversary wants to forge a valid signature for a message of his choice, he does have access to two oracles, one that computes hash values and one that checks either a pair message-signature is valid or not ; but each request to one of those oracles has a cost. We express this cost in term of a minimal number of operations required to access the oracle's answer. Note that the verification oracle's answers can only be "Yes" or "No", that is to say that these answers do not contain any hash values.

In Section 6, we will describe real-life applications of our schemes which justify the use of this model. Furthermore, we will see that most of our parameters remain secure if the verification cost drops down to the cost of a single operation, as long as the access to the hash oracle has a non-negligible cost.

{2}------------------------------------------------

A generic and naive approach to get smaller signatures. One can always derive a small signature from any signature scheme, as long as one is willing to spend a longer time to verify the signature.

More precisely, one only has to pick any signature scheme of his choice, let us consider that it outputs n-bits long signatures and that the verification process usually takes T seconds, and to remove f bits from them, then the verification process will take at most 2fT seconds, and the signature will be n − f bits long.

This generic construction is classic and enables one to shorten as much as possible the length of a signature, at the expense of a longer verification process due to an exhaustive search.

However, this construction is very different from the one we will present in this article. In fact, our way to shorten signature does not depend on exhaustive search, but on solving systems of multivariate polynomials. Doing so, we take advantage of the very structure of multivariate-based cryptosystems.

Our contribution. In this paper, we describe generic attacks against multivariate signature schemes and we use them to draw inferences about minimal values of parameters one would have to set to build secure ultra-short multivariate signature schemes.

In order to build signature schemes with ultra-short signatures, we exploit original ideas such as time constraints: one should not be able to sign a message or check a signature in less than a minute on a modern personal computer with a 3GHz frequency processor, that is to say with a total computation power around 3.10<sup>9</sup> ×60 ≈ 2 <sup>37</sup> word operations. In addition to this, our parameters are chosen not to require too much memory, typically less than 350MB.

Moreover, this paper gives explicit examples of ultra-short multivariate signature schemes based on HFE variants, for example, for a 80 bit security level, our signatures are about 70 bit-long, which is less than 20 hexadecimal digits.

We provide many parameters for these schemes according to different security levels (from 80 to 100 bits) and different choices of finite fields (from F<sup>2</sup> to F17).

Structure of our paper. In Section 2, we describe three types of generic attacks against multivariate signature schemes (namely Types 1, 2 and 3 attacks) and we derive minimal lengths for our ultra-short signatures from them.

Then, in Section 3, we propose concrete designs for ultra-short multivariate signature schemes based on HFE variants and we study their specific attacks as well (we named them Type 4 attacks).

# 2 Generic Attacks

In this section, we describe the four main types of attacks that have to be considered to design a signature scheme. The three first types are generic attacks against the multivariate signature schemes, whereas the last one is specific to the schemes using HFE variants.

{3}------------------------------------------------

While describing those attacks, we will look for the shortest length L in bit a signature can have for a given level of security of λ bits. In what follows, a λ bit security means classically that the computational power required by an attacker can not exceed 2<sup>λ</sup> operations. In the same spirit and to ease the wording, we will say that a computation, the evaluation of a function or an algorithm for instance, has a b-bit cost, when it requires 2<sup>b</sup> operations. Similarly, a b-bit list or enumeration has 2<sup>b</sup> elements.

Here are the aforementioned four types of attacks:

- Type 1: refers to attacks that work against any public key signature scheme whose signatures are L bit-long.
- Type 2: refers to attacks against signature schemes where the verification of a signature S of a message M is done by checking if F(S) = H(M), where F is a public function which can be evaluated efficiently and H is an hash function.
  - Note that this verification process is different from the more classical one where a function F takes the couple (S, M) as an argument and returns 1 if S is a valid signature of the message M and 0 otherwise.
- Type 3: refers to attacks that work when F is a set of m multivariate quadratic equations over a finite field Fq.
- Type 4: refers to attacks against signature schemes based on HFE with some perturbations. Usually those perturbations, such as "v" (vinegar) or "−" (minus), are used in order to introduce a secret trapdoor in F.

This Section focuses on the 3 first types, the attacks of Type 4 are discussed in Section 3.2.

### 2.1 Type 1 attacks

Let G(S, M) be the signature verification function which outputs 1 if S is a valid signature of message M, and 0 otherwise. Since G is public, a generic attack to find a valid signature S of a message M is to try sufficiently enough values for S until G(S, M) outputs 1.

Let g be the bit cost of G and L the length of the signature S in bits. Assuming that the signature scheme is sound, any message M should admit at least one signature, so it can be found by an L-bit search, with total cost L + g. So, in order to avoid this attack and if we want a λ bit security, we must have: L ≥ λ − g.

For example, if we want signatures smaller than 80 bits for a 80 bit security, we need the evaluation for G to be heavy (its cost must be high enough). This is the core of this paper, that is to say to design multivariate signature schemes relying on heavy modes of operation.

Let's consider that a user has a computational acceptable work of, for instance, 38 bits (1 minute of computation for a nowadays personal computer). Thus, for a 80 bit security, the length L of the signature in bits will have to be greater or equal to 80 − 38 = 42 bits.

{4}------------------------------------------------

The aim of this paper is to study what kind of value L (larger than this bound, but as small as possible) we can choose and to design explicit schemes with it.

Remark 1. If the signature has only, let us say 60 bits for example, the birthday paradox states that if 2<sup>30</sup> messages are signed, two messages will have, with a high probability, the same signature. This may not be a problem since these two messages have been actually signed by the legitimate user, thus there is no "dangerous" attacks based on the fact that they have the same signature. Moreover, it is always possible to avoid this issue by asking the legitimate user not to sign more than about one billion messages with the same public key.

#### 2.2 Type 2 attacks and our modes of operation

In the multivariate signature schemes studied in this paper, one checks if S is a valid signature of a message M using an equality like this:

$$G(S) = H(M),$$

where G and H are public (H stands for a hash function, and G is given by the public key). This offers other possibilities of generic attacks detailed below.

Collisions on H. First, an attacker could look for collision on H. If one can find two messages M<sup>1</sup> and M<sup>2</sup> with the same hash value, one could ask for the signature of M<sup>1</sup> and obtain the signature of M2. Let E be the number of bits of the output of H (i.e. we can write the equality G(S) = H(M) as an equality on E bits vectors). Let us write that H has a h bit cost. This birthday attack proceeds like this: we enumerate a list of a bit size of values M and we store M at the address H(M), hence a total cost of a + h. Then we will obtain with high probability (thanks to the birthday paradox) that two values share the same address (i.e. we have find a collision H(M1) = H(M2)) as soon as a > E/2. Let λ be the desired security level. For any attacker, we have a + h < λ. Therefore, in order to avoid this collision attack on H, we must have:

$$E \ge 2\lambda - 2h$$
.

Note that there also exists time and memory trade-off: with more time we can use less memory; however, in this paper, we focus only on the time complexity.

Recall that in this paper, the hash function H has a cost of about 37 bits. So, if h = 37 and if we target an 80 bit security, then E has to be greater or equal to 2 × 80 − 2 × 37 = 86 bits.

However, the length L of the signature can be smaller than the outputs size E as we will see below.

{5}------------------------------------------------

Collisions of the type G(S) = H(M). Second, an attacker could look for collision of the type G(S) = H(M). More precisely, by choosing a list of random S of a bit size, and a list of random messages M of b bit size, an attacker would find a collision G(S) = H(M) with high probability as soon as a + b > E.

Let g be the bit cost of G, and let h be the bit cost of H. Since λ is the security parameter, for any attacker we have a+g < λ and b+h < λ. Therefore, the attack will be impossible when

$$E \ge 2\lambda - h - g. \tag{1}$$

We will denote ∆ = E − 2λ + h + g. So (1) can be written: ∆ ≥ 0.

Note that classical signature schemes such as RSA or ECDSA are not threatened by this kind of attack since their signature lengths, way bigger than for multivariate-based cryptography, make the complexity of the birthday paradox attack larger than any other attacks.

To avoid this attack, which was first mentioned in [22], several ways have been designed, usually one calls them "modes of operation". Mainly, there are the Feistel-Patarin, the Gui, the UOV, and the Dragon mode of operations. For instance, the Feistel-Patarin mode of operation is the one used in the NIST Post-Quantum candidate GeMSS, and in Quartz.

Nevertheless, we will not use most of the aforementioned modes of operation since they usually raise the size of the signatures, which is what we want to avoid for ultra-short signature schemes. We will generally use the Feistel-Patarin mode with a slow hash function (see Sec. 4.1) and sometimes a "Multiple public key mode" (see App. C). The "Multi public key" mode will also work with ∆ < 0 but at a cost of a larger public key.

These mode of operation rely on the use of a slow hash function, that is to say an hash function which require around 1 minute to be computed (approximately a 37 bit work cost) or 1 second (approximately a 31 bit work cost). Indeed, these new modes of operation perfectly fulfill the requirement of ultra-short signature schemes since they do not raise the length of the signature and are compatible with the 1 minute (or 1 second) requirement described above.

How to build easily a slow hash function. Our modes of operation rely on the use of a hash function H that requires a "lot" of operations. It can be built using iterations of a standard hash function such as SHA-3 or SHA-256. These functions on optimized platforms can operate at a rate of 13 cycles per byte, which means that for a data of 72 bytes, (36 words of 16 bits) it requires about 2<sup>10</sup> cycles (so a 10 bit work). For instance, if one wants to build a hash function with 37 bit work, (i.e. around 1 minute to compute a hash value), one needs to consider using 2<sup>27</sup> iterations of a standard hash function. To prevent an attacker from speeding the computation, one may consider to tweak the hash function, so the ith iteration may be for instance Hi(x) = SHA-3(xki), and H(x) = H<sup>2</sup> <sup>27</sup> (. . . H2(H1(x)). . .). However, we may also consider a "parallelizable" version such as:

{6}------------------------------------------------

 $H(x) = H_1(x) \bigoplus H_2(x) \bigoplus \cdots \bigoplus H_{2^{27}}(x)$ , that enables a trade-off between time and computing power. Whatever the choice, what matters is that an attacker can not perform one evaluation of H in fewer operations than the legitimate user.

#### 2.3 Type 3 attacks

This section describes Type 3 attacks, that is to say, when the attacker wants to forge a signature by solving a polynomial system of equations.

To forge a valid signature for a message M, an attacker wants to find a string of bits S such that G(S) = H(M). Since G and H are public (recall that G is a set of m quadratic multivariate polynomials given by the public key), the attacker is left with solving a system of multivariate equations. In other words, solving this system enables the attacker to find  $G^{-1}(H(M))$ .

Of course, G is not a random set of multivariate equations, otherwise the legitimate user would not be able to invert it. Indeed, G has a secret structure, hidden as much as possible, which gives it what is called a trapdoor. With this trapdoor, which is part of the private key, the legitimate user can invert G. The purpose of hiding this special structure is that G looks random to the attacker who can only invert it using generic polynomial system solvers such as Gröbner basis algorithms. One sometimes speaks of "perfect trapdoor" to refer to the hypothetical case where G would be perfectly random.

Thus, the complexity of solving a random system of multivariate equations gives an estimation of the complexity to forge a multivariate signature.

This section first describes the classic way to solve a polynomial system, namely Gröbner basis. Then, from the complexities obtained, we derive minimum sizes multivariate signatures could have.

Remark 2 (Complexity of evaluating G).

Since G, the set of public equations, is composed of m dense quadratic equations in about m variables, the cost of one evaluation can be estimated as  $\frac{m^3}{2}$ . However, an evaluation can be done quicker when it is not done from scratch, but when reuses another one and only few bits in the input change. So the average cost could be as low as  $m^2$ . It is probably possible to do even better, so in our analysis, we will consider that this cost is an arbitrarily low constant.

Polynomial system solving using Gröbner basis. Let us briefly introduce Gröbner basis techniques that are fundamental tools for solving systems of multivariate polynomial equations. Readers may refer to [23, 3, 4] for further details.

The computation of a Gröbner basis is a non-linear generalization of Euclid's algorithm for the greatest common divisor, as well as a generalization of Gaussian elimination for linear systems. Roughly speaking, a Gröbner basis is a set of multivariate polynomials having special properties that allow easy solutions derivation for complex polynomial systems.

{7}------------------------------------------------

As a matter of fact, it is possible to transform any multivariate polynomial system, even complicated ones, into Gr¨obner basis form using specific algorithms (like F4 [13] and F5 [14] algorithms).

The computational complexity of such method relies strongly on an important notion, namely the degree of regularity dreg.

Intuitively, dreg is the minimal degree for which a set of polynomials of degree d can form a Gr¨obner basis, and thus can be solved (see [1, 14] for more details).

The complexity of a Gr¨obner basis computation detailed in [1, 14] is in:

$$\mathcal{O}\left(\binom{n+d_{reg}}{d_{reg}}^{\omega}\right),$$

where 2 ≤ ω ≤ 3 is the linear algebra constant. Note also that for random systems, the degree of regularity can be evaluated by the computation of the first non negative coefficient of a Hilbert serie, see [1].

Polynomial system solving using an hybrid approach. In order to speed up the computation of a Gr¨obner basis, the authors of [5] combine an exhaustive search for some variables and a Gr¨obner basis computation for the remaining variables. Thus, this approach is called "hybrid".

The complexity of this hybrid approach is:

$$\min_{0 \le k \le n} \left( q^k \left( \mathcal{C}_{F5}(n-k, d_{reg}^{\max}(k)) + \mathcal{O}\left( (n-k) D^{\max}(k)^{\omega} \right) \right) \right),$$

where k is the number of fixed variables, 2 ≤ w ≤ 3 is the linear algebra constant, Dmax(k) is the maximum number of solutions, counted with multiplicity, of the system in Fq, and C<sup>F</sup> <sup>5</sup> is the complexity of the F5 algorithm ([14]).

When the trade-off factor k is well chosen, the hybrid approach can be the most efficient algorithm for solving polynomial systems.

Choice of the constant of linear algebra ω. As seen in the previous formulas, the constant of linear algebra ω plays an important role in the complexities of Gr¨obner basis algorithms. From a practical point of view, we should choose ω = 2.81 due to Strassen algorithm.

From a theoretical point of view, there exists an algorithm with ω ≈ 2.37 but it would not be efficient in practice due to huge constant terms in its complexity.

However, in order to take into account the fact that the linear systems arising in the computation of a Gr¨obner basis are usually really sparse, one often consider that ω = 2.

Size of the signature with a perfect trapdoor. As we did in the previous Sections for the Type 1 and 2 attacks, we can now look for minimal parameters for ultra-short multivariate signature schemes according to Type 3 attacks. All

{8}------------------------------------------------

Table 1. Generic degree 2 table: Number f of variables that we can find with MAGMA in about 1 minute when we have m equations of degree 2 (ω = 2.37), and size L in bits if we can find a perfect trapdoor.

| Degree 2<br>ω = 2.37 | 80<br>2           | 90<br>2           | 100<br>2          | 128<br>2           | 192<br>2           | 256<br>2           |
|----------------------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
|                      | m = 86            | m = 100           | m = 112           | m = 145            | m = 218            | m = 290            |
| q = 2                | f = 29<br>L = 57+ | f = 30<br>L = 70+ | f = 31<br>L = 81+ | f = 33<br>L = 112+ | f = 37<br>L = 181+ | f = 42<br>L = 248+ |
|                      | m = 43            | m = 50            | m = 56            | m = 73             | m = 113            | m = 154            |
| q = 4                | f = 21            | f = 22            | f = 23            | f = 26             | f = 30             | f = 32             |
|                      | L = 44+           | L = 56+           | L = 66+           | L = 94+            | L = 166+           | L = 244+           |
|                      | m = 40            | m = 45            | m = 50            | m = 66             | m = 102            | m = 139            |
| q = 5                | f = 20            | f = 20            | f = 21            | f = 24             | f = 27             | f = 30             |
|                      | L = 47+           | L = 59+           | L = 68+           | L = 98+            | L = 175+           | L = 254+           |
|                      | m = 35            | m = 40            | m = 45            | m = 59             | m = 91             | m = 124            |
| q = 7                | f = 19            | f = 20            | f = 20            | f = 22             | f = 26             | f = 29             |
|                      | L = 45+           | L = 57+           | L = 71+           | L = 104+           | L = 183+           | L = 267+           |
|                      | m = 34            | m = 39            | m = 43            | m = 57             | m = 88             | m = 119            |
| q = 8                | f = 19            | f = 19            | f = 20            | f = 23             | f = 27             | f = 29             |
|                      | L = 45+           | L = 60+           | L = 69+           | L = 102+           | L = 183+           | L = 270+           |
|                      | m = 32            | m = 36            | m = 40            | m = 52             | m = 81             | m = 111            |
| q = 11               | f = 18            | f = 19            | f = 20            | f = 21             | f = 26             | f = 28             |
|                      | L = 49+           | L = 59+           | L = 70            | L = 108+           | L = 191+           | L = 288+           |
|                      | m = 31            | m = 35            | m = 39            | m = 51             | m = 79             | m = 107            |
| q = 13               | f = 18            | f = 19            | f = 20            | f = 21             | f = 25             | f = 28             |
|                      | L = 49+           | L = 60+           | L = 71+           | L = 112+           | L = 200+           | L = 293+           |
|                      | m = 30            | m = 34            | m = 38            | m = 50             | m = 77             | m = 104            |
| q = 16               | f = 18            | f = 18            | f = 19            | f = 21             | f = 26             | f = 28             |
|                      | L = 48+           | L = 64+           | L = 76+           | L = 116+           | L = 204+           | L = 304+           |
|                      | m = 29            | m = 33            | m = 37            | m = 49             | m = 76             | m = 103            |
| q = 17               | f = 17            | f = 18            | f = 19            | f = 21             | f = 25             | f = 28             |
|                      | L = 50+           | L = 62+           | L = 74+           | L = 115+           | L = 209+           | L = 307+           |

those information are gathered in Table 1, the rest of this Section is dedicated to the explanation on how to read it.

From now on, let us take the first cell at the top left corner of Table 1 as an example. In this table, m stands for the number of equations and it is equal to the number of variables. For instance, the first cell of the table gives that the computational power needed to solve a random quadratic system of 94 multivariate equations in 94 unknowns is 2<sup>80</sup> .

As the verifier has a computational power up to 2<sup>37</sup> operations (i.e. around 1 minute), the signature can be a part S <sup>0</sup> of the signature S, containing only m−f elements in the considered finite field. The value f (30 in our example cell) was chosen so that recovering the signature S from S 0 takes around 1 minute for the verifier according to our MAGMA implementation.

{9}------------------------------------------------

Knowing m and f, one finds the length of the signature in bits by computing:

$$L := (m - f) \log_2(q).$$

In our example cell, it is 94 − 30 = 64 bits.

Nevertheless, as described in the previous Section, one should be careful that the value of ∆ is not too small, in fact, if it is, the multivariate signature scheme will have a public key far too large. Recall that in this paper we are looking for ultra-short signature scheme whose verification and signing time are reasonable, but we also want the public key not to be too large. In our example cell, the value of ∆ = −10.4 is too large.

The purpose of the arrows and the new values on the right (m<sup>0</sup> , f<sup>0</sup> , L<sup>0</sup> ) is to set new parameters with the same level of security, this time with ∆ as close to zero as possible. Note that when ∆ is positive, there is no need to raise the parameters, so there is no right part in the cell. In our example cell, we need to increase m = 94 to 104 in order to get a value of ∆ closer to 0 (recall that this is done to reduce the size of the public key). With this new m<sup>0</sup> = 104, one needs to update the value of f to f <sup>0</sup> = 31 and L to L <sup>0</sup> = 73.

Finally, the "+" symbols by the signature length L <sup>0</sup> means that this length is a lower bound which will naturally go up while taking into account all the other possible attacks.

Nevertheless, this table gives a glimpse of the minimal parameters ultra-short multivariate signature could have in the general case.

Remark 3. First, a surprising fact is that q = 2 does not appear so far to be the best choice of finite field for ultra-short signatures. Second, the lengths L for various finite fields (q = 5, 7, 11, . . .) are very similar.

# 3 HFE and our schemes

In this Section, we describe the classic HFE algorithm, called "Nude" HFE and its variants. Then we describe the best currently known attacks against it, and finally, we use them to derive parameters for our ultra-short multivariate schemes.

#### 3.1 Nude HFE, and HFE Variants

Description of (nude) HFE. Hidden field Equations (HFE) algorithm was proposed by Patarin at Eurocrypt [20] to repair the algorithm C\* of Matsumoto and Imai [17]. The basic idea of HFE is to hide the special structure of a univariate polynomial F over some finite field (usually F2<sup>n</sup> ) which allows F to have a quadratic polynomials representation in the small field.

{10}------------------------------------------------

HFE(q, n, D) shape.

Let  $\mathbb{F} = \mathbb{F}_q$  be a finite field of  $q = p^m$  elements for some prime number p,  $\mathbb{E} = \mathbb{F}_{q^n}$  its n-th degree extension, and  $\phi : \mathbb{E} \to \mathbb{F}^n$  the canonical isomorphism between  $\mathbb{E}$  and the corresponding vector space  $\mathbb{F}^n$ . Given  $(\theta_1, \ldots, \theta_n)$  a basis of  $\mathbb{E}$  as an  $\mathbb{F}$ -vector space, we have:

$$\phi: \qquad \mathbb{E} = \mathbb{F}_{q^n} \longrightarrow \mathbb{F}^n$$

$$V = \sum_{i=1}^n v_i \theta_i \longmapsto (v_1, \dots, v_n).$$

Let  $\mathcal{F}^*$  be the following map:

$$\mathcal{F}^*: \qquad \mathbb{F}_{q^n} \longrightarrow \mathbb{F}_{q^n}$$

$$V \longmapsto F(V),$$

with  $F \in \mathbb{E}[X]$  is a univariate polynomial of the special form:

$$F = \sum_{0 \le i \le j \le n}^{q^i + q^j \le D} \alpha_{i,j} X^{q^i + q^j} + \sum_{0 \le i \le n}^{q^i \le D} \beta_i X^{q^i} + \gamma, \tag{2}$$

where  $\alpha_{i,j}$ ,  $\beta_i, \gamma \in \mathbb{F}_{q^n}$ , and F is of degree at most  $D \in \mathbb{N}$ . Then, F has the HFE(D) shape that allows to have multivariate quadratic polynomials representation over  $\mathbb{F}$  using the map  $\mathcal{F} = \phi \circ \mathcal{F}^* \circ \phi^{-1}$ :

$$\mathcal{F}: \qquad \mathbb{F}_q^n \qquad \longrightarrow \qquad \mathbb{F}_q^n$$
$$(v_1, \dots, v_n) \qquad \longmapsto \qquad (f_1(v_1, \dots, v_n), \dots, f_n(v_1, \dots, v_n)),$$

with the quadratic polynomials  $(f_1, \ldots, f_n) \in (\mathbb{F}_q[x_1, \ldots, x_n])^n$  such that:

$$F(\phi^{-1}(x_1,\ldots,x_n)) = \phi^{-1}(f_1,\ldots,f_n)$$

$$F\left(\sum_{i=1}^{n} \theta_{i} x_{i}\right) = \sum_{i=1}^{n} \theta_{i} f_{i}.$$

HFE problem

Basically,  $\mathcal{F}^*$  is chosen to be an easily invertible and evaluated map. Using the canonical isomorphism  $\phi$ , the map  $\mathcal{F}^*$  can be transformed into a quadratic map  $\mathcal{F} = \phi \circ \mathcal{F}^* \circ \phi^{-1}$ . Thus, F can be written as a set of n quadratic polynomials  $(f_1, \ldots, f_n)$  in n variables  $(x_1, \ldots, x_n)$  over  $\mathbb{F}$ .

In order to build a cryptosystem based on the inversion of an HFE shaped polynomial, the original structure of  $\mathcal{F}$  must be hidden since it is possible to

{11}------------------------------------------------

find solutions of F(x) = a, a ∈ Fq<sup>n</sup> in polynomial time. To do so, one uses two invertible affine maps

$$\mathcal{S}, \mathcal{T}: \mathbb{F}^n \to \mathbb{F}^n$$
.

Therefore, the public key consists of

$$\mathcal{P} = \mathcal{S} \circ \mathcal{F} \circ \mathcal{T} = \mathcal{S} \circ \phi \circ \mathcal{F}^* \circ \phi^{-1} \circ \mathcal{T},$$

and the secret key that yields the inversion of the public key is given by S, T and F ∗ . Thus, it is difficult to compute the inverse of P when its decomposition remains secret. Some super-polynomial attacks are known on "Nude" HFE, this is why we will see some perturbations to increase its security.

HFE is one of the most studied algorithms in public key cryptography. It can be used for authentication, encryption and also signature purposes.

Probability to have 0 solutions in signature. For a random function f from E to E, where E is a finite set, the probability that for a value y of E there is at least one value x such that f(x) = y is about 63.2% (i.e. 1 - 1/e).

For a random non homogeneous polynomial of degree 2 in n variables, or for a random homogeneous polynomial of degree 2 in F2<sup>n</sup> , it is also about 63%. Therefore, one needs to try on average about 1.5 values in order to find a signature.

However, in Fq<sup>n</sup> , when q is odd, and for an homogeneous random polynomial of degree 2, the probability is only 31.6% (i.e. 2 times less). Therefore, in this case, one needs to try on average about 3 values in order to find a signature. The reason is that, in this case, for all value X we have f(X) = f(−X) and X 6= −X (except if X = 0).

So, when q is odd, we generally choose a non-homogeneous polynomial. Then the secret linear transformations S and T defined in HFE will be chosen to be affine (that is to say linear with constants).

We expect that this non-homogeneous choice (when q is odd) does not create a security problem; since S and T are very general linear bijections, we expect that no attack should exist by exploiting only the degree 1 part of the public equations. However, if in the future it appears that non-homogeneous equations are not a good choice, we could come back to homogeneous solutions, with a probability to be invertible divided by 2.

### 3.2 The best known attacks against nude HFE

In this section, we briefly present the best known attacks against HFE; this will enable us to choose our parameters accordingly. There are basically 3 kinds of attacks against HFE schemes:

- 1. Differential attacks,
- 2. Direct attacks,
- 3. Key recovery attacks.

{12}------------------------------------------------

Differential attacks. These attacks are very efficient when only one monomial is used, even when some perturbations are used. For example, SFLASH was broken with a differential attack in [6].

Thus, in order to avoid these attacks, we will always use at least 2 monomials of weight 2 in the secret HFE polynomial, i.e. we will always have at least the monomials X<sup>2</sup> and Xq+1 if q is not a power of 2, and at least the monomials Xq+1 and X2q+1 if q is a power of 2.

Direct attacks. In these attacks, like in [12] or in [15], one tries to solve the public equations for a given value Y (i.e. for a given message, one tries to find a valid signature) by using Gr¨obner algorithms like F4 or F5.

Let D be the degree of the HFE polynomial. Let

$$r = \lfloor \log_q(D-1) \rfloor + 1,$$

it reflects the rank of the quadratic form associated to the HFE polynomial.

The order of magnitude of the complexity of this attacks is

$$\binom{d_{reg} + n}{d_{reg}}^{\omega},$$

where dreg is the degree of "regularity" of the system, and ω is the linear algebra constant ( 2 ≤ ω ≤ 3, usually we consider ω = 2 or ω = 2.37). Therefore, the main difficulty in order to evaluate this complexity is to evaluate d.

In [12], an upper bound on this value d is given:

$$d_{reg} \le 2 + \frac{(q-1)r}{2}.\tag{3}$$

This upper bound is interesting since it is proved and it is valid for all values of q. It shows that the degree of regularity of HFEv− public equations is often smaller than the one of a random system.

When q = 2, many experiments have been done. As long as dreg is not larger than the degree of regularity of a similar random systems (that we can compute from Hilbert series), these experiments show that dreg can be estimated by:

$$d_{reg} = \left| \frac{r+7}{3} \right|$$

However, when q is different from 2, at present, very little is known about dreg. This is why we made our own experiments with MAGMA. It is difficult to see if q will be a factor as it is in Equation (3).

Nevertheless, we did observe that dreg starts with the value q (when D = 2), and when q = 5, it seems to increase by 1 almost each time r increases by 1; this is very different from what we have with F<sup>2</sup> where r generally has to be increased by 3 to have the same effect.

So, we will assume that when q ≥ 5, we have: dreg ≥ q −2 +r, as long as this value is smaller or equal to the degree of regularity one would have with similar random equations.

{13}------------------------------------------------

Remark 4. When q ≥ n, we have noticed that dreg = n + 1. However, in our parameters we will always have q < n.

Key recovery attacks. Let n be the number of public equations, equal to the number of variables. let r = dlog<sup>q</sup> (D)e.

Attacking a HFE instance with parameters (n, D, r) reduces to solving a MinRank instance of the following form: one wants to find a linear combination with coefficients in Fq<sup>n</sup> of K := n square matrices of size n (with entries in Fq) with a small rank r or less. This reduction correspond to the key recovery attack described in [25].

With the recent progress made for solving the MinRank problem in [2], this key recovery attack is currently the most threatening attack against HFE; previously it was the attack in [10]. [2] uses a clever algebraic modeling of the MinRank problem in order to solve it by direct linearization instead of using generic Gr¨obner basis algorithms such as F4 or XL.

For the MinRank parameters mentioned above, this attack requires

$$\mathcal{O}\left(K(r+1)\left(\binom{n}{r}\binom{K+b-1}{b}\right)^2\right) \tag{4}$$

operations in Fq<sup>n</sup> as long as there exists an integer b in {1, . . . , r + 2} which fulfills the following condition (5) and such that b < q.

$$\binom{n}{r} \binom{K+b-1}{b} - 1 \le \sum_{i=1}^{b} (-1)^{i+1} \binom{n}{r+i} \binom{l+i-1}{i} \binom{K+b-i-1}{b-i}.$$
 (5)

In the previous complexity formula, l := n is the number of rows of the matrices; in order to get the smallest complexity, one can delete a few columns to get a new instance with n 0 columns as mentioned in [2]. Thus, one replaces n by n 0 in (4) and (5), but l := n has to remain the same. One should be careful that this optimization works if and only if the new MinRank instance still has a single solution. Thus, the complexity of the attack is the minimum value obtained from (4) for a valid choice of b and n 0 .

#### 3.3 Our ultra-short signature scheme and its parameters

In this Section, we present our ultra-short multivariate signature scheme based on nude HFE in degree 2 and on the heavy mode of operation described in Section 2.2. In order to do so, we will explain the choice of its parameters step by step.

Recall that we want our signatures to be as short as possible, with reasonable public key size, and verifiable in at most about 2 minutes on a modern personal computer (1 minutes for the slow hash and 1 minute to recover the whole signature).

{14}------------------------------------------------

Choice of the degree D of the HFE polynomial. First of all, due to many cryptanalytic results such as [6], the HFE polynomial must have at least 2 monomials. This is why our polynomials always have at least the two following monomials: X<sup>2</sup> and X1+<sup>q</sup> .

Let us denote d = dlog<sup>q</sup> (D)e. From our aforementioned MAGMA simulations, we derived the following maximum values for d (see Table 2) , they are chosen in order to spend about 1 minute for the verification process.

Table 2. Values of d according to q for 1 minute.

| q |                |  |  | 2 4 5 7 8 11 13 16 17 |   |   |   |
|---|----------------|--|--|-----------------------|---|---|---|
|   | d 16 9 7 6 5 5 |  |  |                       | 4 | 4 | 4 |

Variants. HFEv− schemes corresponds to the use of only the two perturbations: − (minus) and v (vinegar). The main advantage of those perturbations is that they only have a very limited impact on signatures sizes. However, due to the recent attacks on these variants (see [24]), we will not use these perturbations in this paper. We call "Nude HFE" a scheme with no additional perturbation.

Remark 5. It may look surprising to use Nude HFE since super-polynomials attacks are known against it, and therefore it is generally not recommended. However, since our purpose is very specific, this attack is not a problem. Indeed, we want a scheme with very short signatures that can be computed in 2<sup>37</sup> operations for the legitimate users and 2<sup>80</sup> computations for the non-legitimate users. One notices that as long as ω is greater than 2.47, the scheme keeps its security of 80 bits. This is generally considered as a very reasonable assumption.

Nevertheless, for larger security requirements, (128 or 256 bit security for example) the super polynomial attacks fall below the security level, and then nude HFE is not useful anymore, but some other multivariate schemes schemes still give very short signatures.

# 4 Examples of parameters for Ultra-Short signatures with Nude HFE

In what follows, we use the following notation:

- λ : number of bits of expected security
- m : number of equations in the public key
- q, n : HFE is done in Fq<sup>n</sup>
- v : number of vinegar variables
- a : number of minus perturbation
- p : number of projections
- L : length of signature

{15}------------------------------------------------

– R : number of Feistel-Patarin rounds

– h : the slow hash function requires 2<sup>h</sup> computations

– f : number of undisclosed bits of the signature

– D : degree of the HFE polynomial

– d : dlog<sup>2</sup> (D)e – r : dlog<sup>q</sup> (D)e

Table 3. Examples of parameters for a security in 2<sup>80</sup> with q = 2 and approx. 1s. or 1 mn. to check a signature. Nude HFE with R rounds.

| m                                 | 86    | 86    | 92                                       | 92    | 100  | 100         |
|-----------------------------------|-------|-------|------------------------------------------|-------|------|-------------|
| d                                 | 16    | 17    | 16                                       | 17    | 16   | 17          |
| D                                 | 32769 | 65537 | 32769                                    | 65537 |      | 32769 65537 |
| h (0.5 seconds)                   | 31    | 31    | 31                                       | 31    | 31   | 31          |
| R                                 | 9     | 9     | 5                                        | 5     | 3    | 3           |
| Exhaust. search (m + 31 bits) 117 |       | 117   | 123                                      | 123   | 131  | 131         |
| Birthday attack                   | 80.5  | 80.5  | 81.8                                     | 81.8  | 82.7 | 82.7        |
| Gr¨obner                          |       |       | 33.14ω 36.69ω 33.79ω 37.43ω 34.6ω 38.35ω |       |      |             |
| MinRank1                          | 83.6  | 87.6  | 83.9                                     | 87.9  | 84.3 | 88.3        |
| Pub. Key Size (kBytes)            | 39.2  | 39.2  | 47.5                                     | 47.5  | 61.0 | 61.0        |
| Time to sign (mn.)                | 2.25  | 5.6   | 1.25                                     | 3.13  | 0.75 | 1.88        |
| Sig. size for 1s verif. (bits)    | 86    | 86    | 92                                       | 92    | 100  | 100         |
| Sig. size for 1mn verif. (bits)   | 71    | 71    | 76                                       | 76    | 84   | 84          |

In table 3 (resp. tables 4 and 5), we present possible parameters for 80 bits security (resp. 90 and 100 bits). We use here a Nude HFE with R rounds of Feistel-Patarin mode. See next section.

### 4.1 Feistel-Patarin mode of operation

For most of our parameters, the number of input our output bits for the function F is smaller than twice the desired security level. In order to avoid birthday paradox attacks, we have to use a specific mode of operation, namely the "Feisel-Patarin" with R rounds. This is similar to what was used in Quartz [22] or GeMSS [8]. Note that another possibility which results in small signatures but huge public keys is detailed in Section C.

It works as follow: let R be the number of rounds, R values Y1, . . . , Y<sup>R</sup> are derived from the hash of the message to sign, then R + 1 values X0, . . . , X<sup>R</sup> satisfying X<sup>0</sup> = 0 are computed, and F(Xi) = Y<sup>i</sup> LXi−1, for i = 1, . . . , R, finally X<sup>R</sup> is the signature.

To verify a signature, the R values Y1, . . . , Y<sup>R</sup> are computed from the message, the R + 1 values X0, . . . , X<sup>R</sup> are computed in reverse order, starting with X<sup>R</sup> equal to the signature and then Xi−<sup>i</sup> = F(Xi) LY<sup>i</sup> , for i = R, . . . , 1. The signature is valid if and only if X<sup>0</sup> is 0.

{16}------------------------------------------------

Table 4. Examples of parameters for a security in 2<sup>90</sup> with q = 2 and approx. 1s. or 1 mn. to check a signature. Nude HFE with R rounds.

| m                                 | 95   | 100                 | 105                                    | 150  | 160               | 170   |
|-----------------------------------|------|---------------------|----------------------------------------|------|-------------------|-------|
| d                                 | 18   | 18                  | 18                                     | 17   | 17                | 17    |
| D                                 |      |                     | 131073 131073 131073 65537 65537 65537 |      |                   |       |
| h (0.5s)                          | 31   | 31                  | 31                                     | 31   | 31                | 31    |
| R                                 | 12   | 6                   | 4                                      | 1    | 1                 | 1     |
| f                                 | 0    | 0                   | 0                                      | 27   | 28                | 29    |
| Exhaust. search (m + 31 bits) 126 |      | 131                 | 136                                    | 161  | 191               | 201   |
| Birthday attack                   | 90.0 | 90.1                | 90.2                                   | 90.5 | 95.5              | 100.5 |
| Gr¨obner                          |      | 37.79ω 38.35ω 38.9ω |                                        |      | 42.8ω 43.6ω 44.2ω |       |
| MinRank                           | 92.0 | 92.3                | 92.7                                   | 90.0 | 90.3              | 90.6  |
| Pub. Key Size (kBytes)            | 53   | 62                  | 72                                     | 207  | 252               | 302   |
| Time to sign (mn.)                | 20.4 | 10.2                | 6.7                                    | 0.63 | 0.63              | 0.63  |
| Sig. size for 1s verif. (bits)    | 95   | 100                 | 105                                    | 123  | 132               | 141   |
| Sig. size for 1mn verif. (bits)   | 81   | 85                  | 89                                     | 117  | 126               | 135   |

Table 5. Examples of parameters for a security in 2<sup>100</sup> with q = 2 and approx. 1s. or 1 mn. to check a signature.

| m                                 | 110   | 240                  | 600            |
|-----------------------------------|-------|----------------------|----------------|
| d                                 | 20    | 19                   | 18             |
| D                                 |       | 524289 262145 131073 |                |
| h (0.5s)                          | 31    | 31                   | 31             |
| R                                 | 7     | 1                    | 1              |
| f                                 | 0     | 34                   | 40             |
| Exhaust. search (m + 31 bits) 141 |       | 271                  | 631            |
| Birthday attack                   | 100.1 | 135.5                | 315.5          |
| Gr¨obner                          | 43.1ω | 48.1ω                | 58.6ω          |
| MinRank                           | 100.7 | 100.1                | 100.0          |
| Pub. Key Size                     | 82 kB |                      | 847 kB 12.9 MB |
| Time to sign (mn.)                | 73    | 4.2                  | 1.7            |
| Sig. size for 1s verif. (bits)    | 110   | 206                  | 560            |
| Sig. size for 1mn verif. (bits)   | 95    | 200                  | 554            |

{17}------------------------------------------------

For a security level λ, the number R of iterations must be chosen such that (see [22] or [8]):

$$2^{\frac{mR}{R+1}} \ge 2^{\lambda}.$$

When a slow hash function requiring 2<sup>h</sup> computations is used, this formula becomes

$$2^{\frac{mR+h}{R+1}} \ge 2^{\lambda}$$
, i.e.  $R \ge \frac{\lambda-h}{m-\lambda}$ .

Remark 6. When R ≥ 2, the value of Table 1 are often the one with f = 0, since some equations of larger degree will appear. However it is still possible to find some missing bits of the signature by exhaustive search, instead of using Gr¨obner basis.

# 5 Examples of parameters for Ultra-Short signatures with pHFEv−

| Expected security λ        | 80    | 100                                                           | 128 |
|----------------------------|-------|---------------------------------------------------------------|-----|
| [n, v, p, D, d], a = 0     |       | [87, 10, 1, 129, 8] [113, 13, 1, 129, 8] [146, 25, 4, 129, 8] |     |
| h (0.5 s)                  | 31    | 31                                                            | 31  |
| R                          | 7     | 6                                                             | 6   |
| Gr¨obner attack            | 36.6ω | 43.3ω                                                         | 58ω |
| Attack in [18]             | 44.4ω | 44.8ω                                                         | 57ω |
| Public key size (kByte) 98 |       | 217                                                           | 500 |
| Time to verify (s.)        | 1     | 1                                                             | 1   |
| Time to sign (s.)          | 2     | 3.5                                                           | 26  |
| Signature size (bits)      | 150   | 185                                                           | 272 |

Table 6: Examples of pHFEv− parameters, Feistel-Patarin mode and slow hash function.

For security levels of 80, 90 or 100 bits, nude HFE with our specific mode of operation gives the shortest signature size. If one wants to reach higher security levels, for instance 128 bits or more, nude HFE becomes completely inefficient due to the quasi polynomial attack in [9]

However, a new perturbation on HFE, namely "projection" (pHFEv−) has been recently presented in [18].

Since this perturbation is quite new, its complexity is not stabilized yet, nevertheless, we think that it is interesting to propose some parameters for ultrashort signatures schemes based on it.

In addition to this, it shows that our construction is somehow generic, and gives a framework to derive short signatures for future HFE perturbations.

In what follows, pHFEv− denotes the scheme based on HFE with the following perturbations: p (projections), v (vinegar) and − (minus). In Table 6, we 

{18}------------------------------------------------

present some examples of parameters with an expected security of 80, 100, and 128 bits on pHFEv−.

The three main kinds of attacks against pHFEv− are the generic attacks (see Sec. 2), the Gr¨obner basis attack and the specific attack described in [18]. When some projections are used (i.e. p 6= 0), [18] is the best known attack.

The complexity given in [18] is

$$\mathcal{O}\left((n_x n_y^2 + n_x^2 n y)^{\omega}\right)$$

where 
$$n_x = n + v$$
,  $n' = \lceil \frac{(n+v)(d+p+1)}{n-a} \rceil + d + p + 1$ ,  $n_y = \binom{n'}{d+p}$ .

Also, as said in [18], the complexity of Gr¨obner attack against pHFEv− is not known so far, but we conjecture that it is O n+dreg dreg ω where dreg = b a+v+d−p+7 3 c, which coincides with the Gr¨obner attack against HFEv− (when p = 0).

# 6 Discussion about our security model

### 6.1 Examples of implementation of our security model together with our ultra-short signatures

As our signatures are "ultra-short", they could be stored in a tiny QR code, or combined in watermarking applications. One of their most valuable interests is also that they could, for instance, be spelled by a human to another one over the phone. Indeed, we can deal with 64 bit-long signatures easily when they are represented as 16 hexadecimal values such as: 45A5F352CDE20240. This is less than the size of a strong Wifi-Box password that has to be typed into a device. Moreover, if one uses alphanumeric value (consisting in digits 0 . . . 9, letters a . . . z and A . . . Z), i.e. 62 characters, then 64 bits can be written with only 11 Alphanumeric characters such as: 4fDjK457GfD.

Recall that, in this paper, all of our schemes rely on a security model where the oracles for the verification and for the computation of hash values have limited resources; that is to say that each request to one of those oracles has a non-negligible cost for an attacker.

A concrete example involving non-negligible costs of verification and hash could be the following: in order to activate a software, a user needs to enter an ultra-short signature in it, this signature will be given to the user over the phone; in this case, the cost of the verification would not be negligible as it would be done by the user's personal computer. In this example, if the user manages to get an illegal copy of the software and is looking for a valid signature to activate it, he would have to "pay" the cost of every verification on his computer.

Another example of our security model involves QR codes; as the ultra-short signatures can fit in small QR codes, a hand device such a phone could be used to verify them. In such a case, the verification cost would not be free as well.

{19}------------------------------------------------

Last but not least, if the verification process is done online by a server which receive requests from a user (a client), it is really easy to create artificially a verification cost. Indeed, the server just has to require the client to solve a puzzle before answering. The cost of solving the puzzle, to match our security parameters, would never be more than 1 minute or, similarly, 2<sup>37</sup> bit operations.

These real-life applications of our security model seem legitimate since for all of them an attacker would require billions of cell phones or personal computers to be able to forge a valid signature for a given message.

### 6.2 Security of our ultra-short signature scheme in a classical security model

In the classical security model used to prove the existential unforgeability under chosen message attack (EUF-CMA), an attacker has access to an oracle which can tell him if a given string of bits is a valid signature for a message. As our signature scheme involves the use of hash functions, the attacker also requires an oracle which computes hash values. If, like in the classical security model, the attacker has access to those oracle "for free" (that is to say at no extra cost than generating the request, or in other words at cost one since it is a single operation), our scheme does not hold since it relies on slow verification and slow hash functions. Nevertheless, we will see in this section that as long as the access to the hash-oracle has a non-negligible cost, our scheme remains secure only by changing a few of its parameters. Indeed, if the access to the hash-oracle was free as well, this would improve significantly the birthday attack (such as the one described in Section 2).

If the access to the verification oracle is free, for a given l bit-long signature and for a security of 2<sup>λ</sup> operations, the attacker can brute force the 2<sup>l</sup> possible signatures. Usually, as l ≥ λ, this is not a problem, but for the few parameters for which the length of the signature is smaller than the security parameter λ, we only need to adjust slightly the parameters. For example, for a security level of 280, with q = 2 (see sec. ), we should set a + v = 7 (instead of 0), and r = 8 (instead of 16), then the signature length would be 80 bits instead of 73 bits. Similarly, with q = 4, we should set a + v = 9 (instead of 7), and r = 8 (instead of 9), then the signature length would be 80 bits as well. With these parameters, the other attacks are less efficient, so it enables us to reduce the value of D (from 65536 to 256 for the former and from 262144 to 65536 for the latter) and thus obtain significantly faster signature.

Note that for 90 bits of security (or more), we do not have to change the parameters given in sec. since the lengths of the signatures are already larger than the security parameter λ.

Remark 7. To protect our signatures against brute-force attacks (i.e. finding at least one valid signature among the 2<sup>L</sup> possible bit strings), there is not necessarily a need for the verification cost to be as big as 2<sup>37</sup> operations. Indeed, for the two sets of parameters for which the signatures are shorter than the security 

{20}------------------------------------------------

parameter λ, if the verification oracle asks the user/attacker to solve a simple puzzle before answering his request, it is usually enough. More precisely, with q = 2 and 73 bit-long signatures (see Sec. 3 ), a puzzle requiring 2<sup>7</sup> operations to be solved would usually be enough to reach a security of 80 bits, and with q = 2 and 64 bit-long signatures , a puzzle in 2<sup>16</sup> operations would usually be enough.

# 7 Conclusion

At present, the shortest public key signatures are obtained with multivariate signature schemes such as Rainbow, Quartz, or GeMMS. Usually, their lengths are between 128 and 256 bits, and the times needed to sign and verify them are in milliseconds.

In this paper, we have studied how to design shorter signatures as long as one accepts to spend about 1 minute to sign a message or to verify a signature. For instance, for a security of 80 bits, we have designed a signature scheme whose signatures are only 71 bit-long. Interestingly, there are many ways to achieve such short signatures (different designs, variants, and parameters set).

In order to avoid problems arising with ultra-short signatures, we have designed some specific new modes of operations.

Overall, our ultra-short signature schemes were achieved thanks to the following ideas and tradeoffs:

- We find some missing bits of the signature much faster than with exhaustive search using hybrid Gr¨obner bases algorithms.
- We use very slow hash functions.
- Sometimes, we rely on the use of many independent public keys.

Our implementation. We implemented our ultra-short signature schemes in MAGMA, our source code is available on our website. Moreover, the MAGMA programs we used to generates the values in the tables are on our website as well.

The advantage of these programs is that they can be executed with a free MAGMA license, allowing everybody to sign messages and verify signatures with our schemes or to verify the figures in our tables. In addition to this, according to MAGMA free license limitations, our programs always return a value within at most 2 minutes and using less than 366MB of memory.

To go further: evolution of our scheme with time. In the near future, let us say in 10 or 30 years, it is expected that computers will be more powerful than now, whereas humans' brain will remain the same.

As seen above, when the security parameter increases, the length of the signature must also increase. In the future, if the computational power of an attacker and of a legitimate user increase in the same proportion (for instance, from 2<sup>80</sup> 

{21}------------------------------------------------

to 2<sup>90</sup> for the attacker and from 2<sup>37</sup> to 2<sup>47</sup> for the legitimate user), will our signatures sizes inevitably grow a lot ?

To answer that question, we could look in the past in order to extend the results to the future. More precisely, for a former security level of 2<sup>70</sup> and with a time allowed to sign or check a signature of 60ms (about 2<sup>27</sup> operations), the signature length would be almost the same as it is for 80 bits of security nowadays.

To be very specific, here are the parameters that enable us to get those figures: q = 2, r = 6 (i.e. a degree D = 129), n = 95 (in order to have ∆ ≈ 0), and f = 20 gives an HFE signature which can be computed or checked in 60ms. Its length is 95 − 20 = 75 bits, i.e. about the same as in this paper with 1024 times more computations for the legitimate user and the attacks.

More investigations would be required here, nevertheless this example shows that it is likely that the length of our ultra-short signature will grow very slowly, even if the computational power of both the attacker and the legitimate user goes up.

# Appendices

# A Best known attack complexities on nude HFE

Table 7: Complexity of the best attack against nude HFE, i.e. the key recovery attack described in Section 3.2; n, d, and D are the parameters, and q = 2. The complexities are given in bits and the last column indicates the number of columns used for the attack (see Section 3.2)

| n      | d |        | D Complexity Columns |        |
|--------|---|--------|----------------------|--------|
| 50 15  |   | 16385  | 77.3                 | 31/50  |
| 100 15 |   | 16385  | 80.3                 | 31/100 |
| 300 15 |   | 16385  | 85.0                 | 31/300 |
| 600 15 |   | 16385  | 88.0                 | 31/600 |
| 50 16  |   | 32769  | 81.3                 | 33/50  |
| 100 16 |   | 32769  | 84.3                 | 33/100 |
| 300 16 |   | 32769  | 89.0                 | 33/300 |
| 600 16 |   | 32769  | 92.0                 | 33/600 |
| 50 17  |   | 65537  | 85.3                 | 35/50  |
| 100 17 |   | 65537  | 88.3                 | 35/100 |
| 300 17 |   | 65537  | 93.0                 | 35/300 |
| 600 17 |   | 65537  | 96.0                 | 35/600 |
| 50 18  |   | 131073 | 89.3                 | 37/50  |
| 100 18 |   | 131073 | 92.3                 | 37/100 |
| 300 18 |   | 131073 | 97.0                 | 37/300 |

{22}------------------------------------------------

Table 7 (second part)

| n      | d     | D               | Comp  | Columns |  |  |
|--------|-------|-----------------|-------|---------|--|--|
| 600 18 |       | 131073          | 100.0 | 37/600  |  |  |
|        | 50 19 | 262145          | 93.3  | 39/50   |  |  |
| 100 19 |       | 262145          | 96.3  | 39/100  |  |  |
| 300 19 |       | 262145          | 101.0 | 39/300  |  |  |
| 600 19 |       | 262145          | 104.0 | 39/600  |  |  |
|        | 50 20 | 524289          | 97.3  | 41/50   |  |  |
| 100 20 |       | 524289          | 100.3 | 41/100  |  |  |
| 300 20 |       | 524289          | 105.0 | 41/300  |  |  |
| 600 20 |       | 524289          | 108.0 | 41/600  |  |  |
|        | 50 21 | 1048577         | 101.3 | 43/50   |  |  |
| 100 21 |       | 1048577         | 105.3 | 43/100  |  |  |
| 300 21 |       | 1048577         | 109.0 | 43/300  |  |  |
| 600 21 |       | 1048577         | 112.0 | 43/600  |  |  |
|        | 50 22 | 2097153         | 105.3 | 45/50   |  |  |
| 100 22 |       | 2097153         | 108.3 | 45/100  |  |  |
| 300 22 |       | 2097153         | 113.0 | 45/300  |  |  |
| 600 22 |       | 2097153         | 116.0 | 45/600  |  |  |
|        | 50 23 | 4194305         | 109.3 | 47/50   |  |  |
| 100 23 |       | 4194305         | 112.3 | 47/100  |  |  |
| 300 23 |       | 4194305         | 117.0 | 47/300  |  |  |
| 600 23 |       | 4194305         | 120.0 | 47/600  |  |  |
|        | 50 24 | 8388609         | 118.3 | 47/50   |  |  |
| 100 24 |       | 8388609         | 120.3 | 51/100  |  |  |
| 300 24 |       | 8388609         | 125.0 | 51/300  |  |  |
| 600 24 |       | 8388609         | 128.0 | 51/600  |  |  |
|        |       | 50 25 16777217  | 109.3 | 47/50   |  |  |
|        |       | 100 25 16777217 | 112.3 | 51/100  |  |  |
|        |       | 300 25 16777217 | 117.0 | 51/300  |  |  |
|        |       | 600 25 16777217 | 120.0 | 51/600  |  |  |
|        |       |                 |       |         |  |  |

# B Berlekamp algorithm, and roots finding with Magma

Berlekamp algorithm. The Berlekamp algorithm is generally what we use to find the roots of a polynomial of degree D in Fq<sup>n</sup> for typical cryptographic values. There are two parts in this algorithm: the computation of the Frobenius application, and the computation of a GCD. For the Frobenius the complexity (when D is larger than n) is in O(nD log<sup>2</sup> (D)). For the GCD the complexity is in O(nD<sup>2</sup> ). (Asymptotically the complexity is about in O(nD) but from a practical point of view the asymptotic algorithms are not expected to be useful for our parameters).

Here are in the tables below, the times taken by Magma to find the roots of a polynomial of degree D on Fq<sup>n</sup> .

{23}------------------------------------------------

Table 8. Time to compute roots of a polynomial of degree D, q = 2, n = 127.

| D               | d |            | Time (Magma) Time (GeMMS team) |
|-----------------|---|------------|--------------------------------|
| 129             | 8 | 0.095 s.   | 0.0041 s.                      |
| 32769           |   | 16 98.3 s. | 10 s.                          |
| 65537           |   | 17 >2mn.   | 25 s.                          |
| 131073 18 >2mn. |   |            | 68 s.                          |

In table 8, in addition to the time obtained by Magma, we present the time obtained with the improved software of the GeMMS team. Note that for example, when D = 19, the improved software is 23 times faster than Magma.

Table 9: Time to compute roots of degree D in Fq<sup>n</sup> , for various D, q, and n.

| q=4, n=47      |           |                      |        |               |  |  |  |
|----------------|-----------|----------------------|--------|---------------|--|--|--|
| D              | 17        | 65                   | 257    | 1025          |  |  |  |
| Time (ms) 4.29 |           | 31.2                 | 140    | 650           |  |  |  |
| D              | 4097      | 16385                | 65537  |               |  |  |  |
| Time (s)       | 2.17      | 13.4                 | 80.6   |               |  |  |  |
|                | q=5, n=43 |                      |        |               |  |  |  |
| D              | 6         | 26                   | 126    |               |  |  |  |
| Time (ms) 20.2 |           | 76                   | 840    |               |  |  |  |
| D              | 626       | 3126                 | 15626  |               |  |  |  |
| Time (s)       | 4.5       | 17.4                 | 117    |               |  |  |  |
|                |           | q=7, n=40            |        |               |  |  |  |
| D              | 8         | 50                   | 344    |               |  |  |  |
| Time (ms) 9.35 |           | 105                  | 1630   |               |  |  |  |
| D              | 2402      | 16808                |        |               |  |  |  |
| Time (s)       | 10.2      | 110                  |        |               |  |  |  |
|                |           | q=11, n=35           |        |               |  |  |  |
| D              | 12        | 122                  | 1332   | 14642         |  |  |  |
| Time           |           | 15 ms 360 ms         |        | 11.7 s 86.9 s |  |  |  |
| q=13, n=35     |           |                      |        |               |  |  |  |
| D              | 14        | 170                  | 2198   |               |  |  |  |
| Time           |           | 23 ms 540 ms         | 11.4 s |               |  |  |  |
| q=17, n=33     |           |                      |        |               |  |  |  |
| D              | 18        | 290                  | 4914   |               |  |  |  |
| Time           |           | 55 ms 1680 ms 29.2 s |        |               |  |  |  |

{24}------------------------------------------------

# C Multiple independent public keys mode of operation.

In the main body of this paper, we have decided to use the "Feistel-Patarin" mode of operation in order to avoid the birthday attacks. We will present here another possible solution: the "Multiple independent keys" mode. In terms of ultra short signatures, this mode is slightly better, however in terms of public key length, the "Feistel-Patarin" mode is much better. In fact the Multiple independent keys mode is often not realistic due to huge public key sizes.

In this mode of operation, we use a set of k independent public keys (the new public key is a set of k previous public keys). Therefore, the length of the new public key is k times what was previously the length of the public key, but the security of the scheme remains the same. When we want to sign a message M, we will first compute a public function f(M) that gives an integer between 1 and k, and this integer will be the number of the public key that we will use. Like this, as we will see below, it is possible to avoid attacks based on the birthday paradox, but this is only realistic when k is not too large. In this paper we will first use a Slow Hash mode (cf below) and sometimes combine this Slow Hash mode with this idea of Multiple independent public keys.

Signature generation. When we want to sign a message M in this "Multiple independent public keys"-mode, we will proceed like this:

- 1. We first compute H(M) a slow hash of M. This will take 2<sup>h</sup> computations (typically h = 37 in this paper).
- 2. From this value H(M) we compute a value R(H(M)) between 1 and k. This value gives the number of the public key that we will use (i.e. the m public quadratic equations that must be satisfied to sign M).
- 3. From the secret key associated with this public key, the signature is computed.

Attack. It is possible to attack this mode of operation with a complexity in 2 <sup>λ</sup> and with a birthday paradox type of attack like this:

- 1. The attacker computes 2λ−<sup>h</sup> values R(H(M)).
- 2. The attacker selects the public key that was obtained the most. In general he will obtain about 2λ−h/k values for this public key (see Remark below).
- 3. The attacker then computes 2λ−<sup>g</sup> values G(S) and looks for a collision with a value obtained in 2. (Here 2<sup>g</sup> denotes as above the time to compute a value G(S)).

This attack is expected to succeed with a good probability when 2<sup>2</sup>λ−h−<sup>g</sup> ≥ k2 <sup>E</sup> where E denotes as above the number of bits of equalities to be satisfied when we check if a signature is valid from the public key.

Since by definition ∆ = E − 2λ + h + g, we see that in order to avoid this attack we will have to choose: k ≥ 2 <sup>−</sup><sup>∆</sup>. This will give an acceptable public key length only if ∆ is not too negative.

Example. In table 3 with m = 92, we have presented a scheme with a 76 bit long signature in security 2<sup>80</sup>. If instead of using the Feistel-Patarin mode 

{25}------------------------------------------------

(R = 5), we use the multiple keys mode, then R = 1 (so we go 5 times faster) and f = 29, so we can remove 29 bits (restored by Gr¨obner basis computation) instead of 16 (restored by exhaustive search). Therefore our signature will have only 63 bits (instead of 76). However here ∆ = 92−160+ 37+g so ∆ ≈ −30 and the public key will be about 1 billion times larger, i.e. completely unrealistic. We see that the multiple key mode of operation is only realistic when ∆ is not too negative.

Remark 8. When 2λ−<sup>h</sup> is much larger than k, the number of values obtained in 2. for a given public key is a variable of mean value 2λ−h/k, and with a standard deviation about the square root of this. Therefore for the public key with the more solutions will still have about 2λ−h/k solutions as claimed. For example we did a simple simulation by generating 10 millions random values between 1 and 100. The number that was obtained most was obtained 100 732 times in our simulation, and this number is very near 100 000 as expected.

# References

- 1. Bardet, M.: Etude des syst`emes alg´ebriques surd´etermin´es. Applications aux codes ´ correcteurs et `a la cryptographie. Ph.D. thesis, Pierre and Marie Curie University, Paris, France (2004), https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-00449609
- 2. Bardet, M., Bros, M., Cabarcas, D., Gaborit, P., Perlner, R., Smith-Tone, D., Tillich, J.P., Verbel, J.: Improvements of algebraic attacks for solving the rank decoding and minrank problems. In: International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security. pp. 507–536. Springer (2020)
- 3. Bardet, M., Faug`ere, J., Salvy, B., Spaenlehauer, P.: On the complexity of solving quadratic boolean systems. J. Complex. 29(1), 53–75 (2013)
- 4. Bardet, M., Faug`ere, J.C., Saly, B.: On the complexity of Gr¨obner basis computation of semi-regular overdetermined algebraic equations. In: Proc. International Conference on Polynomial System Solving Paris, France, 2004. pp. 71–75 (2004)
- 5. Bettale, L., Faug`ere, J., Perret, L.: Hybrid approach for solving multivariate systems over finite fields. Journal of Mathematical Cryptology 3(3), 177–197 (2009)
- 6. Bouillaguet, C., Fouque, P.A., Macario-Rat, G.: Practical key-recovery for all possible parameters of SFLASH. In: International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security. pp. 667–685. Springer (2011)
- 7. Buhler, J.P., Lenstra, H.W., Pomerance, C.: Factoring integers with the number field sieve. In: The development of the number field sieve, pp. 50–94. Springer (1993)
- 8. Casanova, A., Faug`ere, J.C., Macario-Rat, G., Patarin, J., Perret, L., Ryckeghem, J.: GeMSS: A Great Multivariate Short Signature. Research report, UPMC - Paris 6 Sorbonne Universit´es ; INRIA Paris Research Centre, MAMBA Team, F-75012, Paris, France ; LIP6 - Laboratoire d'Informatique de Paris 6 (Dec 2017), https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01662158
- 9. Ding, J., Hodges, T.J.: Inverting hfe systems is quasi-polynomial for all fields. In: Annual Cryptology Conference. pp. 724–742. Springer (2011)
- 10. Ding, J., Perlner, R., Petzoldt, A., Smith-Tone, D.: Improved cryptanalysis of HFEv− via projection. In: Lange, T., Steinwandt, R. (eds.) Post-Quantum Cryptography. pp. 375–395. Springer International Publishing, Cham (2018)

{26}------------------------------------------------

- 11. Ding, J., Schmidt, D.: Rainbow, a new multivariable polynomial signature scheme. In: Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Applied Cryptography and Network Security. p. 164–175. ACNS'05, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg (2005)
- 12. Ding, J., Yang, B.Y.: Degree of regularity for HFEv and HFEv−. In: International Workshop on Post-Quantum Cryptography. pp. 52–66. Springer (2013)
- 13. Faugere, J.C.: A new efficient algorithm for computing Gr¨obner bases (F4). Journal of pure and applied algebra 139(1-3), 61–88 (1999)
- 14. Faugere, J.C.: A new efficient algorithm for computing Gr¨obner bases without reduction to zero (F5). In: Proceedings of the 2002 international symposium on Symbolic and algebraic computation. pp. 75–83 (2002)
- 15. Faug`ere, J., Joux, A.: Algebraic cryptanalysis of hidden field equation (HFE) cryptosystems using Gr¨obner bases. In: Boneh, D. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2003, 23rd Annual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, California, USA, August 17-21, 2003, Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 2729, pp. 44–60. Springer (2003)
- 16. Kipnis, A., Patarin, J., Goubin, L.: Unbalanced oil and vinegar signature schemes. In: International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques. pp. 206–222. Springer (1999)
- 17. Matsumoto, T., Imai, H.: Public quadratic polynomial-tuples for efficient signatureverification and message-encryption. In: Workshop on the Theory and Application of of Cryptographic Techniques. pp. 419–453. Springer (1988)
- 18. Øygarden, M., Smith-Tone, D., Verbel, J.A.: On the effect of projection on rank attacks in multivariate cryptography. In: Cheon, J.H., Tillich, J. (eds.) Post-Quantum Cryptography - 12th International Workshop, PQCrypto 2021, Daejeon, South Korea, July 20-22, 2021, Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 12841, pp. 98–113. Springer (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-81293-5 6, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-81293-5 6
- 19. Patarin, J.: Cryptanalysis of the Matsumoto and Imai public key scheme of Eurocrypt'88. In: Annual International Cryptology Conference. pp. 248–261. Springer (1995)
- 20. Patarin, J.: Hidden fields equations (HFE) and isomorphisms of polynomials (IP): Two new families of asymmetric algorithms. In: International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques. pp. 33–48. Springer (1996)
- 21. Patarin, J.: La cryptographie multivariable. M´emoire d'habilitation `a diriger des recherches de l'Universit´e Paris 7, 354 (1999)
- 22. Patarin, J., Courtois, N., Goubin, L.: Quartz, 128-bit long digital signatures. In: Cryptographers' Track at the RSA Conference. pp. 282–297. Springer (2001)
- 23. Sturmfels, B.: What is... a Gr¨obner basis? Notices-American Mathematical Society 52(10), 1199 (2005)
- 24. Tao, C., Petzoldt, A., Ding, J.: Improved key recovery of the HFEv− signature scheme. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch 1424 (2020)
- 25. Vates, J., Smith-Tone, D.: Key recovery attack for all parameters of HFE. In: International Workshop on Post-Quantum Cryptography. pp. 272–288. Springer (2017)