

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Super-Linear Time-Memory Trade-Offs for Symmetric Encryption

Wei Dai<sup>†</sup>\*, Stefano Tessaro<sup>‡</sup> and Xihu Zhang<sup>‡</sup>

†University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, USA weidai@eng.ucsd.edu †University of Washington, Seattle, USA {tessaro,xihu}@cs.washington.edu

**Abstract.** We build symmetric encryption schemes from a pseudorandom function/permutation with domain size N which have very high security – in terms of the amount of messages q they can securely encrypt – assuming the adversary has S < N bits of memory. We aim to *minimize* the number of calls k we make to the underlying primitive to achieve a certain q, or equivalently, to *maximize* the achievable q for a given k. We target in particular  $q \gg N$ , in contrast to recent works (Jaeger and Tessaro, EUROCRYPT '19; Dinur, EUROCRYPT '20) which aim to beat the birthday barrier with one call when  $S < \sqrt{N}$ .

Our first result gives new and explicit bounds for the Sample-then-Extract paradigm by Tessaro and Thiruvengadam (TCC '18). We show instantiations for which  $q = \Omega\left((N/S)^k\right)$ . If  $S < N^{1-\alpha}$ , Thiruvengadam and Tessaro's weaker bounds only guarantee q > N when  $k = \Omega(\log N)$ . In contrast, here, we show this is true already for  $k = O(1/\alpha)$ .

We also consider a scheme by Bellare, Goldreich and Krawczyk (CRYPTO '99) which evaluates the primitive on k independent random inputs, and masks the message with the XOR of the outputs. Here, we show  $q = \Omega\left((N/S)^{k/2}\right)$ , using new combinatorial bounds on the list-decodability of XOR codes which are of independent interest. We also study best-possible attacks against this construction.

### 1 Introduction

A number of very recent works [2,47,44,38,29,20,19] extend the concrete security treatment of provable security to account for the *memory complexity* of an adversary. For symmetric encryption, Jaeger and Tessaro [38] showed for example that randomized counter-mode encryption (CTR) is secure against attackers encrypting  $q = \Theta(N/S)$  messages, where S is the memory complexity of the adversary and  $N = 2^n$  is the domain size of the underlying PRF/PRP, which is assumed to be sufficiently secure. This is a *linear* time-memory trade-off – reducing S by a multiplicative factor  $\varepsilon < 1$  allows us to increase by a factor  $1/\varepsilon$  the tolerable data complexity of the attack.

The benefit of such a trade-off is that  $if S < \sqrt{N}$ , one can tolerate  $q > \sqrt{N}$ , which is beyond the so-called "birthday barrier." Building schemes with beyond-birthday security is a prime line of research in symmetric cryptography, but constructions are generally less efficient without imposing any memory restrictions on the adversary.

Our contributions: Super-linear trade-offs. The trade-off for CTR relies on a thin margin: For  $N=2^{128}$ , we only improve upon memory-unbounded analyses if  $S\ll 2^{64}$ . While  $2^{64}$  bits is a large amount of memory, it is not unreasonably large. One should therefore ask whether we can do better – either take advantage of a weaker memory limitation or be able to encrypt a much larger number of messages. More broadly, we want to paint a full picture of what security is attainable under a given memory restriction – complementing our understanding of the landscape without memory constraints.

<sup>\*</sup> Work done in part while visiting the University of Washington.

{1}------------------------------------------------

More concretely, we consider constructions which make k calls to a given block cipher[1](#page-1-0) with domain size N, and ask the following question:

If the adversary is bounded to S ă N bits of memory, what is the highest security we can achieve (in terms of allowable encryptions q) by a construction making k calls?

Tessaro and Thiruvengadam [\[44\]](#page-34-1) showed that one can achieve security for q " N encrypted messages at the cost of k " Ωplog Nq, whereas here we do much better by giving schemes that can do so already for k " Op1q: They can in particular encrypt up to q " ΘppN{Sq cpkq q messages, for cpkq ą 1. (This is what we refer to as a super-linear trade-off.) For one of our two constructions (in fact, the same construction as [\[44\]](#page-34-1), but with a much better analysis), we get cpkq " k ´ 1 for messages of length n, and cpkq " k for bit messages. These trade-offs appear best-possible (or close to bestpossible), but proving optimality for now seems to be out of reach – we move first steps by studying attacks against one of our constructions.

These schemes can securely encrypt q " N messages as long as S ă N. It is important to appreciate that without the restriction, q ă N is an inherent barrier for current proof techniques (cf. [\[44\]](#page-34-1) for a discussion).

On practice and theory. We stress that our approach is foundational. Even for k ě 2, practitioners may find the resulting constructions not viable. Still, security beyond q ą N may be interesting in practice – we may want to implement a block cipher with smaller block length (e.g., N " 2 <sup>80</sup>) and then be able to still show security against q " 2 <sup>128</sup> encryptions, as long as S ă 2 80 , which is a reasonable assumption.

We also stress that the question we consider here is natural in its own right, and is a cryptographic analogue and a scaled-up version of the line of works initiated by Raz [\[42\]](#page-34-3), with a stronger focus on precise bounds and thus different techniques. (We discuss the connection further in Section [1.4](#page-6-0) below.)

### 1.1 Our Contributions

We start with a detailed overview of our contributions. (A technical overview is deferred to the next two sections.) Our constructions make k calls to a function F<sup>K</sup> : t0, 1u <sup>n</sup> Ñ t0, 1u <sup>n</sup> keyed with a key K – this is generally obtained from a block cipher like AES (in which case, n " 128). We will use the shorthand N " 2 n . For the presentation of our results in this introduction, it is helpful to assume F<sup>K</sup> behaves as a random function or a random permutation – this can be made formal via suitable PRF/PRP assumptions, and we discuss this at the end of this section in more detail.

The Sample-then-Extract Construction. The first part of this paper revisits the Samplethen-Extract (StE) construction of [\[44\]](#page-34-1). StE depends on a parameter k ě 1 as well as a (strong) randomness extractor[2](#page-1-1) Ext : pt0, 1u n q <sup>k</sup> ˆ t0, 1u <sup>s</sup> Ñ t0, 1u ` . The encryption of a message M P t0, 1u ` under key K is then

$$C = (R_1, \dots, R_k, \mathsf{sd}, \mathsf{Ext}(\mathsf{F}_K(0 \parallel R_1) \parallel \dots \parallel \mathsf{F}_K(k-1 \parallel R_k), \mathsf{sd}) \oplus M), \qquad (1)$$

where sd P t0, 1u <sup>s</sup> and R1, . . . , R<sup>k</sup> P t0, 1u <sup>n</sup>´log <sup>k</sup> are chosen afresh upon each encryption. We also extend StE to encrypt arbitrary-length messages (which can have variable length), amortizing the

<span id="page-1-0"></span><sup>1</sup> Assumed to be a secure PRP/PRF.

<span id="page-1-1"></span><sup>2</sup> Recall that this means that pExtpX,sdq,sdq and pU,sdq are (statistically) indistinguishable for sd \$Ð t0, 1u s , U \$Ð t0, 1u ` , whenever X has sufficient min-entropy.

{2}------------------------------------------------

cost of including sd, R1, . . . , Rk, in the ciphertext. (For this introduction, however, we only deal with fixed-length messages for ease of exposition.)

Prior work only gives a sub-optimal analysis: For k " Θplog Nq " Θpnq, Tessaro and Thiruvengadam [\[44\]](#page-34-1) show security against q " N1.<sup>5</sup> encryptions whenever S " N1´<sup>α</sup> for a constant α ą 0. Here, we prove a much better bound. For example, for ` " n, and a suitable choice of Ext, we show security up to

$$q = \Theta((N/S)^{k-1})$$

encryptions. This is improved to q " ΘppN{Sq k q for bit messages. Therefore, if S ă N1´α, we can achieve security up to q " N1.<sup>5</sup> encryptions with k " 1 ` 1.5 α , which is constant if α also is.

The k-XOR Construction. Our second result considers a generalization of randomized countermode encryption, introduced by Bellare, Goldreich, and Krawczyk [\[7\]](#page-32-1), which we refer to as the k-XOR construction. For even k ě 1, to encrypt M P t0, 1u n , we pick random R1, . . . , R<sup>k</sup> P t0, 1u n , and output

$$C = (R_1, \dots, R_k, \mathsf{F}_K(R_1) \oplus \dots \oplus \mathsf{F}_K(R_k) \oplus M) . \tag{2}$$

Alternatively, k-XOR can be viewed as an instance of StE with a seedless Ext. For this construction, we prove security up to q " ΘppN{Sq k{2 q encryptions. We note that in [\[7\]](#page-32-1), a memory-independent bound of q " ΘpN{kq was proved for the case where q ă N. The two results are complementary. The bound from [\[7\]](#page-32-1) does not tell us anything for q ą N, in contrast to our bound, but can beat (in concrete terms) our bound for q ă N{k. Different from our results on StE, our proof only works if we assume that F<sup>K</sup> is a random function. We note however that this is consistent with the fact that even for the memory-unbounded setting, no bound based on a random permutation is known. We however discuss how to instantiate F<sup>K</sup> from a PRP, and this will result in a construction similar to the above, just with a high number of calls to F.

It is also clear that we cannot expect to prove any better bound, unless we change the sampling of the indices R1, . . . , Rk. This is because after q " Nk{<sup>2</sup> queries we will see, with very high probability, an encryption with R2i´<sup>1</sup> " R2<sup>i</sup> for all i " 1, . . . , k{2. This attack only requires S " Opk log Nq. However, it is not clear whether this attack extends to leverage larger values of S - we discuss attacks in Section [4.3.](#page-26-0)

Our proof relies on new tight combinatorial bounds on the list-decodability of XOR codes which are of independent interest and improve upon earlier works. Indeed, using existing best-possible bounds in our proof would result in a weaker bound with exponent k{4, as we explain in detail in Appendix [D.](#page-47-0) Recent concurrent work by Garg, Kothari and Raz [\[25\]](#page-33-3) studies the security of Goldreich's PRG [\[30\]](#page-33-4) in a streaming setting – for the particular instantiation of the PRG predicate as XOR one can use their technique to derive a bound with exponent k{9. (We discuss their work further in Section [1.4.](#page-6-0))

Reducing the ciphertext size. In the above constructions, the ciphertext size grows with k. An interesting question is whether we can avoid this – in Appendix [C](#page-40-0) we do so for the case S " ΩpNq. For this setting, our StE analysis gives k " Ωpnq, and thus, the ciphertext has Ωpn 2 q extra random bits in addition to the masked plaintext. In contrast, we present a variant of the StE construction where the number of extra bits in the ciphertext is reduced to Opnq. To this end, we use techniques from randomness extraction and randomness-efficient sampling to instantiate our construction.

Instantiating FK.We need to instantiate F<sup>K</sup> from a keyed function/permutation which we assume to be a pseudorandom function (PRF) or permutation (PRP). The catch is that if we aim for security 

{3}------------------------------------------------

against q > N queries, we need  $F_K$  to be secure for adversaries that also run with time complexity larger than t > q > N.

This assumption is not unreasonable, as already discussed in [44] – one necessary condition is that the key is longer than  $\log q$  bits to prevent a memory-less key-recovery distinguisher (e.g., one would use AES-256 instead of AES-128).<sup>3</sup> This is also easily seen to be sufficient in the ideal-cipher model, where PRP security *only* depends on the key length. Furthermore, our reductions give adversaries using memory S < N, and it is plausible that non-trivial attacks against block ciphers may use large amounts of memory. And finally, key-extension techniques [9,28,27,33] can give ciphers with security beyond N.

## 1.2 Our Techniques – Sample-then-extract

We discuss both constructions, StE and k-XOR, in separate sections, starting with the former.

TIGHTER HYBRIDS. Our proof follows a paradigm (first introduced explicitly in [16], and then adapted in [38] to the memory-bounded setting) developing hybrid-arguments in terms of Shannon-type metrics. This results in bounds of the form  $\sqrt{q \cdot \varepsilon}$ , whereas a classical hybrid arguments would give us bounds of the form  $q\sqrt{\varepsilon}$ . We do not know whether the square root can be removed – Dinur [19] shows how to do so in the Switching Lemma of [38], but it is unclear whether his techniques apply here.<sup>4</sup>

The core of our approach relies on understanding the distance from the uniform distribution for a sample with form

$$Y(\mathsf{F}) = (R_1, \dots, R_k, \mathsf{sd}, \mathsf{Ext}(\mathsf{F}(0 \| R_1) \| \dots \| \mathsf{F}(k-1 \| R_k), \mathsf{sd})) ,$$

for a randomly chosen function  $F : \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^n$ , given additionally access to (arbitrary) S bits of leakage  $\mathcal{L}(\mathsf{F})$ . We will measure this distance in terms of KL divergence, by lower bounding the conditional Shannon entropy  $\mathsf{H}(Y(\mathsf{F})|\mathcal{L}(\mathsf{F}))$ . Giving a bound which is as large as possible will require the use of a number of tools in novel ways.

DECOMPOSITION LEMMA. For starters, we will crucially rely on the decomposition lemma of Göös et al. [32]: It shows that  $F_z$  – which is defined as F conditioned on  $\mathcal{L}(F) = z$  – is statistically  $\gamma$ -close to a convex combination of  $(P, 1 - \delta)$ -dense random variable. A  $(P, 1 - \delta)$ -dense random variable, in this context, is distributed over functions  $F' : \{0, 1\}^n \to \{0, 1\}^n$  and is such that there exists a set  $\mathcal{P} \subseteq \{0, 1\}^n$  of size P with the property that: (1) the outputs F'(x) are fixed for all  $x \in \mathcal{P}$ , whereas (2) for any subset  $I \subseteq \{0, 1\}^n \setminus \mathcal{P}$ , the outputs  $\{F'(x)\}_{x \in I}$  have jointly min-entropy at least  $|I| \cdot (1 - \delta)n$ . It is important to notice that there is a trade-off between  $\gamma$ ,  $\delta$ , and P, in that  $\delta_z = (S_z + \log(1/\gamma))/(Pn)$ , where  $S_z = n2^n - \mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\mathsf{F}_z)$ .

EXTRACTION FROM VARYING AMOUNTS OF MIN-ENTROPY. Our analysis will choose the parameters  $\delta$  and P carefully – the key point, however, is that when we replace  $F_z$  with a  $(P, 1-\delta)$ -dense function F', the total min-entropy of  $F'(0 \parallel R_1) \parallel \cdots \parallel F'(k-1 \parallel R_k)$  grows with the number of probes  $R_i$  such that  $(i \parallel R_i) \notin \mathcal{P}$ , i.e., the set of "good" probes which land on an input for which the output is not fixed. To get some intuition, if one ignores the pre-pended probe index i, the number of good

<span id="page-3-0"></span>The best non-trivial attack against AES-256 uses time approximately  $2^{254}$  [11].

<span id="page-3-1"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> This improvement is irrelevant as long as we only infer the resources needed for constant advantage, which is the standard angle on tightness in symmetric cryptography. However, as pointed out e.g. in [33], exact bounds also often matter.

{4}------------------------------------------------

probes  $g \in \{0, 1, ..., k\}$  would follow a binomial distribution with parameter  $|\mathcal{P}|/N$ , and overall min-entropy is  $g \cdot (1 - \delta)n$ .

Therefore, the extractor is now applied to a random variable which has variable amount of min-entropy, which depends on g. Here, it is useful to use an extractor based on a 2-universal hash function: Indeed, the Leftover-Hash Lemma (LHL) [?] guarantees a very useful property, namely that while the extractor itself is fixed, the entropy of its output increases as the entropy of its input increases. Specifically, the entropy of the  $\ell$ -bit output becomes  $\ell - \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1-h}\}$  when the input has min-entropy  $h \approx g(1-\delta)n$ .

Our approach is dual to the smoothed min-entropy approach of Vadhan [46], which is used to build locally-computable extractors in a way that resembles ours. In our language, but with different techniques, he shows that with good probability,  $g = \Theta(k)$ , where  $k = \Theta(\lambda)$ . This does not work well for us (we care mostly about k = O(1)), and thus we take a more fine-grained approach geared towards understanding the behavior of g.

THE ADVANTAGE OF SHANNON ENTROPY. It is crucial for the quality of the established trade-off to adopt a Shannon-entropy version of the LHL. The more common version bounds the statistical distance as  $2^{(\ell+1-h)/2}$ , and following this path would *only* give us a lower bound on q which is (roughly) the square root of what we prove. We note that a Shannon-theoretic version of the LHL was already proved by Bennet, Brassard, Crépeau, and Maurer [10], and the fact that a different distance metric can reduce the entropy loss is implicit in [4].<sup>5</sup>

EXTRA REMARKS. A few more remarks are in order. Our approach is similar, but also different from that of Coretti et al. [15,14]. They use the decomposition lemma in a similar way to transition to (what they refer to as) the bit-fixing random oracle (BF-RO), i.e., a model where F is fixed on P positions, and completely random on the remaining ones (as opposed to being just  $(1 - \delta)$ -dense, as in our case). Using the BF-RO abstraction yields very suboptimal bounds. Their generic approach would incur an additive factor of  $(S + \log(1/\gamma))k/P$ , which is too large.

#### 1.3 Our techniques - k-XOR

Our approach for StE given above does not yield usable results for k-XOR – namely, any choice of  $\delta$  prevents us from proving that  $\mathsf{F}_z(0 \parallel R_1) \oplus \cdots \oplus \mathsf{F}_z(k-1 \parallel R_k)$  is very close to uniform, even if none of the probes lands in  $\mathcal{P}$ . A unifying treatment of both constructions appears to require finding a strengthening of the decomposition lemma. Instead, we follow a different path.

PREDICTING XORs. The core of our analysis bounds the ability of predicting  $F(R_1) \oplus \cdots \oplus F(R_k)$  for a random function  $F: \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}$ , given (arbitrary) S bits of leakage on F. We aim to upper bound the advantage  $\Delta(N,S,k)$  which measures how much beyond probability  $\frac{1}{2}$  an adversary can guess the XOR given the leakage and  $R_1, \ldots, R_k$ . The focus is on *single-bit* outputs – a bound for the multi-bit case will follow from a hybrid argument. Although this problem has been studied [23,45,35,37,17], both in the contexts of locally-computable extractors for the bounded-storage model and of randomness extraction, none of these techniques gives bounds which are tight enough for us. (We elaborate on this below.) Here, we shall prove that

$$\Delta(N, S, k) = O((S/N)^{k/2}).$$

<span id="page-4-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> The benefits of reducing entropy loss by targeting Shannon-like metrics were also very recently studied by Agrawal [1] in a different context.

{5}------------------------------------------------

The coding connection. Our solution leverages a connection with the list-decoding of the kfold XOR code (or k-XOR code, for short): This encodes F (which we think now as an N-bit string F P t0, 1u <sup>N</sup> ) as an N<sup>k</sup> -dimensional bit-vector k-XORpFq P t0, 1u N<sup>k</sup> such that its component pR1, . . . , RKq P rNs k takes value FpR1q'¨ ¨ ¨'FpRkq. At the same time, a (deterministic) adversary A which on input R1, . . . , R<sup>k</sup> and the leakage Z " LpFq attempts to predict FpR1q ' ¨ ¨ ¨ ' FpRkq can be thought of as family of 2<sup>S</sup> "noisy strings" tC<sup>Z</sup> " Ap¨, ZquZPt0,1<sup>u</sup> S .

Prior works (such as [\[17\]](#page-33-12)) focused (directly or indirectly) on approximate list-decoding, as they give reductions, transforming A and L into some predictor for F, under some slightly larger leakage. (How much larger the leakage is depends on the approximate list size.) Here, instead, we follow a combinatorial blueprint inspired by [\[8,](#page-32-9)[6\]](#page-32-10), albeit very different in its execution. Concretely, we introduce a parameter ε ą 0 (to be set to a more concrete value later), and for all Z P t0, 1u S , let B<sup>Z</sup> be the Hamming Ball of radius p1{2 ´ εqN<sup>k</sup> around CZ. Now, when picking F \$Ð t0, 1u N , exactly one of two cases can arise:

- (i) k-XORpFq P B<sup>Z</sup> for some Z P t0, 1u S , in which case the overlap between C<sup>Z</sup> and k-XORpFq is potentially very high. Ť
- (ii) F R <sup>Z</sup> BZ, in which case A will be able to predict FpR1q ' ¨ ¨ ¨ ' FpRkq with probability at most 1{2 ` ε over the random choice of R1, . . . , R<sup>k</sup> - no matter how LpFq is defined!

Now, let L k <sup>ε</sup> be an upper bound on the number of codewords k-XORpFq within any of the BZ. Then,

$$\Delta(N, S, k) \le \varepsilon + 2^S \cdot L_{\varepsilon}^k / 2^N$$
 (3)

Tight bounds on list-decoding size. What remains to be done here is to find a bound on L k ε – we are not aware of any tight bounds in the literature, and we give such bounds here.

Our approach (and its challenges) are illustrated best in the case k " 1. Specifically, define random variables T1, . . . , T<sup>N</sup> , where, for all R P rNs, T<sup>R</sup> " 1 if CZpRq " FpRq and T<sup>R</sup> " 0 else. When we pick F at random, the T<sup>i</sup> 's are independent, and a Chernoff bound tells us that

$$\Pr\left[\sum_{R=1}^{N} T_R \geqslant \left(\frac{1}{2} + \varepsilon\right) N\right] \leqslant 2^{-\Omega(\varepsilon^2 N)} ,$$

which in turn implies L 1 <sup>ε</sup> ď 2 Np1´ε 2 q . Therefore, setting <sup>ε</sup> to be of order slightly larger than <sup>a</sup> S{N gives us the right bound.

Our proof for k ą 1 will follow a similar blueprint, except that this will require us to prove a (much harder!) concentration bound on a sum of N<sup>k</sup> variables which are highly dependent. We will prove such concentration using the method of moments. The final bound will be of the form L k <sup>ε</sup> ď 2 Np1´ε <sup>2</sup>{kq .

Relationship to past works. We are not aware of any prior work addressing the question of proving tight bounds for the XOR code directly, but prior techniques can non-trivially be combined to obtain non-trivial bounds. The best-possible bound we could derive is pS{Nq k{4 . This can be obtained by combining the approach of De and Trevisan [\[17\]](#page-33-12) with the combinatorial approximate list-decoding bounds of [\[37\]](#page-34-6). We stress that this proof is far from a simple exercise, and this result was never claimed – therefore, we discuss it in detail in Appendix [D.](#page-47-0)

{6}------------------------------------------------

OPTIMALITY. In Section 4.3 we give attacks against k-XOR. In particular, one can easily see that if we want the bound to hold for all values of S, then it cannot be improved, as it is tight for small  $S = O(k \log N)$ . For a broader range of values of S, we give an attack which succeeds with  $q = \Theta((N/S)^k)$  messages – it is a good question whether our bound can be improved for larger values of S to match this attack, or in the case where the  $R_1, \ldots, R_k$  are distinct. (This would preclude our small-memory attack.)

### <span id="page-6-0"></span>1.4 Further Related work

SPACE-TIME TRADE-OFFS FOR LEARNING PROBLEMS. A related line of works is that initiated by Raz [42] on space-time trade-offs for learning problems, which has by now seen several follow-ups [43,39,5,26,25]. In particular, Raz proposes a scheme encrypting each bit  $m_i$  as  $(a_i, \langle a_i, s \rangle + m_i)$  where  $s \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n$  is a secret key, and  $a_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^n$  is freshly sampled for each bit. This scheme allows to encrypt  $2^n$  bits as long as the adversary's memory is at most  $n^2/c$  bits, for some (small) constant c > 1. We can scale up this setting to ours, by thinking of s as the exponentially large table of a random function, but the resulting scheme would also incur exponential complexity. Some follow-up works consider the cases where the  $a_i$ 's are sparse [5,26], but they only study the problem of s and it does not seem possible to obtain (sufficiently sharp) indistinguishability bounds from these results.

Closest to our work on k-XOR is a recent concurrent paper [25] by Garg, Kothari and Raz, which studies the streaming indistinguishability of Goldreich's PRG [30] against memory bounded adversaries. Their target are bounds for arbitrary predicates for Goldreich's PRG, and they prove indistinguishability for up to  $q = \Theta\left((N/S)^{k/9}\right)$  output bits when the predicate is k-XOR. The setting of the analysis is almost identical to ours, with the difference that we think of the PRG seed as being an exponentially large random table. Thus our techniques also yield a tighter bound in their setting for this special case,  $^6$  and we believe they should also yield improved bounds for more general predicates.

On the flip side, it is an exciting open question whether the branching-program framework underlying all of these works can be adapted to obtain bounds as sharp as ours in the indistinguishability setting.

The Bounded-Storage Model. In both cases, our proofs consider the intermediate setting where S bits of leakage  $Z=\mathcal{L}(F)$  are given about F, and we want to show that the output of some locally computable function g(F,R) is random enough given Z, where R is potentially public randomness. This is exactly what is considered in the Bounded Storage Model (BSM) [41,3,46,24,17] and in the bounded-retrieval model (BRM) [22,18]. Indeed, our StE construction can be traced back to the approach of locally-computable extractors [46], and the k-XOR construction resembles the constructions of [41,3,24]. A substantial difference, however, is that we are inherently concerned about the small-probe setting (i.e., k=O(1)) and the case where  $S=N^{1-\alpha}$ , whereas generally the BSM considers S=O(N) and a linear number of probes. We also take a more concrete approach towards showing as-tight-as-possible bounds for a given target k. It would be beneficial to address whether our techniques can be used to improve existing BSM/BRM schemes.

Another difference is that our bounds are typically multiplied by the number of encryption queries. This can be done non-trivially, for example, by using Shannon entropy as a measure of

<span id="page-6-1"></span>There is a small formal difference, in that our analysis of k-XOR evaluates the given function on random indices, whereas in [25] these indices are distinct.

{7}------------------------------------------------

randomness, and relying on the reduced entropy loss for extraction with respect to Shannon entropy, as we do for StE.

### 2 Definitions

Let  $\mathbb{N} = \{0, 1, 2, \dots\}$ . For  $N \in \mathbb{N}$  let  $[N] = \{1, 2, \dots, N\}$ . If A and B are finite sets, then  $\mathsf{Fcs}(A, B)$  denotes the set of all functions  $F : A \to B$  and  $\mathsf{Perm}(A)$  denotes the set of all permutations on the set A. The set of size k subsets of A is  $\binom{A}{k}$ . Picking an element uniformly at random from A and assigning it to s is denoted by  $s \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} A$ . The set of finite vectors with entries in A is  $(A)^*$  or  $A^*$ . Thus  $\{0,1\}^*$  is the set of finite length strings.

If  $M \in \{0,1\}^*$  is a string, then |M| denotes its bit length. If  $m \in \mathbb{N}$  and  $M \in (\{0,1\}^m)^*$ , then  $|M|_m = |M|/m$  denote the block length of M and  $M_i$  denote the i-th m-bit block of M. When using the latter notation, m will be clear from context. The empty string is  $\varepsilon$ . The  $Hamming\ weight$  hw(x) of  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$  is defined as  $hw(x) = |\{i \in [n] \mid x_i \neq 0\}|$ . The  $Hamming\ ball$  of radius r around  $z \in \{0,1\}^n$  is defined as  $\mathcal{B}(z;r) = \{x \in \{0,1\}^n \mid hw(x \oplus z) \leq r\}$ .

We say that a random variable X is a convex combination of random variables  $X_1,...,X_t$  (with the same range as X) if there exists  $\alpha_1,...,\alpha_t \ge 0$  such that  $\sum_{i=1}^t \alpha_i = 1$  and for any x in the range of X, it holds that  $\Pr[X = x] = \sum_{i=1}^t \alpha_i \Pr[X_i = x]$ .

GAMES. Our cryptographic reductions will use pseudocode games (inspired by the code-based framework of [9]). See Fig. 1 for some example games. We let Pr[G] denote the probability that game G outputs true. It is to be understood that the model underlying this pseudocode is the formalism we now describe.

COMPUTATIONAL MODEL. Our algorithms are randomized when not specified otherwise. If  $\mathcal{A}$  is an algorithm, then  $y \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{O_1,O_2,\dots}(x_1,\dots;r)$  denotes running  $\mathcal{A}$  on inputs  $x_1,\dots$  and coins r with access to oracles  $O_1,O_2,\dots$  to produce output y. The notation  $y \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{A}^{O_1,O_2,\dots}(x_1,\dots)$  denotes picking r at random then running  $y \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{O_1,O_2,\dots}(x_1,\dots;r)$ . The set of all possible outputs of  $\mathcal{A}$  when run with inputs  $x_1,\dots$  is  $[\mathcal{A}(x_1,\dots)]$ . Adversaries and distinguishers are algorithms. The notation  $y \leftarrow O(x_1,\dots)$  is used for calling oracle O with inputs  $x_1,\dots$  and assigning its output to y (even if the value assigned to y is not deterministically chosen).

We say that an algorithm (or adversary)  $\mathcal{A}$  runs in time t if its description size and running time are at most t. We say that adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  is S-bounded if it uses at most S bits of memory during its execution, for any possible oracle it is given access to and any possible input.

INFORMATION THEORY. For a random variable X with probability distribution  $P(x) = \Pr[X = x]$ , the Shannon entropy H(X) and collision entropy  $H_2(X)$  are defined as

$$\mathsf{H}(X) = \sum_{x:P(x)>0} P(x) \log \left(\frac{1}{P(x)}\right) \text{ and } \mathsf{H}_2(X) = -\log \left(\sum_x P(x)^2\right) \ ,$$

and the min-entropy of X is  $\mathsf{H}_\infty(X) = -\log \max_x P(x)$ . For two random variables X,Y with joint distribution  $Q(x,y) = \mathsf{Pr}[X=x,Y=y]$ , the conditional Shannon entropy and conditional min-entropy are defined by

$$\mathsf{H}(Y|X) = \sum_{x,y} Q(x,y) \log \frac{Q(x)}{Q(x,y)}$$
 and  $\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(Y|X) = -\log \sum_{x} \max_{y} Q(x,y)$ .

where  $Q(x) = \sum_{y} Q(x, y)$  is the marginal distribution of X.

{8}------------------------------------------------

#### 2.1 Streaming indistinguishability

We review the streaming indistinguishability framework of Jaeger and Tessaro [38], which considers a setting where a sequence,  $\mathbf{X}$ , of random variables

$$X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_q$$

with range [N] is given, one by one, to a (memory-bounded) distinguisher  $\mathcal{A}$ . The distinguisher will need to tell apart this setting from another one, where it is given  $\mathbf{Y} = (Y_1, Y_2, \dots, Y_q)$  instead.

THE STREAMING MODEL. More formally, in the *i*-th step (for  $i \in [q]$ ), the distinguisher  $\mathcal{A}$  has a state  $\sigma_{i-1}$  and stage number *i*. Then it receives  $V_i \in \{X_i, Y_i\}$  based on which it updates its state to  $\sigma_i$ . We denote by  $\sigma_i(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{X}))$  and  $\sigma_i(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y}))$  the state after receiving  $X_i$  and  $Y_i$  when running  $\mathcal{A}$  on streams  $\mathbf{X}$  and  $\mathbf{Y}$ , respectively. We say here that  $\mathcal{A}$  is S-bounded if all states have bit-length at most S. We also assume that  $\sigma_q \in \{0,1\}$ , and think of  $\sigma_q$  as the output of  $\mathcal{A}$ . We define the following streaming-distinguishing advantage

<span id="page-8-1"></span>
$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{\mathbf{X},\mathbf{Y}}(\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{X}) \Rightarrow 1\right] - \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y}) \Rightarrow 1\right] \;.$$

We shall use the following lemma by [38].

**Lemma 1.** Let  $\mathbf{X} = (X_1, \dots, X_q)$  be independent and uniformly distributed over [N] and let  $\mathbf{Y} = (Y_1, \dots, Y_q)$  be distributed over the same support as  $\mathbf{X}$ . Then,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{\mathbf{X},\mathbf{Y}}(\mathcal{A}) \leqslant \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \sqrt{q \log N - \sum_{i=1}^{q} \mathsf{H}(Y_i \mid \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y})))} \ .$$

#### 2.2 Cryptographic preliminaries

FAMILY OF FUNCTIONS. A function family F is a function of the form  $F: F.Ks \times F.Dom \to F.Rng$ . It is understood that there is some algorithm that samples from the set F.Ks, and that fixing  $K \in F.Ks$ , there is some algorithm that computes the function  $F_K(\cdot) = F(K, \cdot)$ . For our purposes, it suffices to restrict to function families where  $F.Dom = \{0,1\}^n$  and  $F.Rng = \{0,1\}^m$  for some n and m.

A blockcipher is a family of functions F for which F.Dom = F.Rng and for all  $K \in F.Ks$  the function  $F(K, \cdot)$  is a permutation.

We let  $\mathsf{RF}_{n,m}: \mathsf{Fcs}(\{0,1\}^n,\{0,1\}^m) \times \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^m$  be the function family of random functions mapping n-bits to m-bits, i.e. for any  $F \in \mathsf{Fcs}(\{0,1\}^n,\{0,1\}^m)$  and  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$ , we define  $\mathsf{RF}_{n,m}(F,x) = F(x)$ . Similarly, we let  $\mathsf{RP}_n: \mathsf{Perm}(\{0,1\}^n) \times \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^n$  be the function family of random permutations on n bits. It is defined so that for any  $P \in \mathsf{Perm}(\{0,1\}^n)$  and  $x \in \{0,1\}^n$ ,  $\mathsf{RP}_n(P,x) = P(x)$ .

PSEUDORANDOMNESS SECURITY. For security we will consider both pseudorandom function (PRF) and pseudorandom permutation (PRP) security.

Let F be a function family with F.Dom =  $\{0,1\}^n$  and F.Rng =  $\{0,1\}^m$ . PRF security asks F to be indistinguishable from  $\mathsf{RF}_{n,m}$ . More formally, consider the function evaluation game  $\mathsf{G}^\mathsf{fn}_\mathsf{F}(\mathcal{A})$ , in

<span id="page-8-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup> Note, quite crucially, that this is different from the definition of S-bounded algorithms, in that we relax our notion of space-boundedness to only consider the states between stages. This is sufficient for our applications, although the model can be restricted.

{9}------------------------------------------------

| $\frac{\text{Game } G^{fn}_{F}(\mathcal{A})}{K \xleftarrow{\$} F.Ks} \\ b \xleftarrow{\$} \mathcal{A}^{FN} \\ \text{Return } b = 1$ | $\frac{\text{Game }G^{indr}_{SE,b}(\mathcal{A})}{K \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} SE.Ks} \\ b' \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{A}^{ENC} \\ Return  b' = 1$                             |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| $\frac{\operatorname{FN}(X)}{Y \leftarrow F(K, X)}$ Return $Y$                                                                      | $\frac{\operatorname{ENC}(M)}{C_1 \leftarrow \operatorname{SE}.\operatorname{Enc}(K, M)}$ $C_0 \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^{ M  + \operatorname{SE}.\times I}$ Return $C_b$ |

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Fig. 1. Security games for PRF/PRP security of a family of functions (Left) and INDR security of an encryption scheme (Right).

which adversary simply gets access to an oracle evaluating  $F_K$  for a random and fixed key K. The PRF advantage of A against F is defined to be

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{fn}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A})] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{fn}}_{\mathsf{RF}_{n,m}}(\mathcal{A})] \ .$$

Similarly, PRP security of a blockcipher F with F.Dom =  $\{0,1\}^n$  is defined to be

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prp}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{fn}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A})] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{fn}}_{\mathsf{RP}_n}(\mathcal{A})]$$

SYMMETRIC ENCRYPTION. A symmetric encryption scheme SE specifies key space SE.Ks, and algorithms SE.Enc, and SE.Dec (where the last of these is deterministic) as well as set SE.M. Encryption algorithm SE.Enc takes as input key  $K \in SE.Ks$  and message  $M \in SE.M$  to output a ciphertext C. We assume there exists a constant expansion length  $SE.xl \in \mathbb{N}$  such that |C| = |M| + SE.xl. Decryption algorithm SE.Dec takes as input ciphertext C to output  $M \in SE.M \cup \{\bot\}$ . We write  $K \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} SE.Ks$ ,  $C \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} SE.Enc(K,M)$ , and  $M \leftarrow SE.Dec(C)$ .

Correctness requires for all  $K \in \mathsf{SE}.\mathsf{Ks}$  and all sequences of messages  $M \in (\mathsf{SE}.\mathsf{M})^*$  that  $\mathsf{Pr}[\forall i : M_i = M_i'] = 1$  where the probability is over the coins of encryption in the operations  $C_i \xleftarrow{\$} \mathsf{SE}.\mathsf{Enc}(K,M_i)$  and  $M_i' \leftarrow \mathsf{SE}.\mathsf{Dec}(K,C_i)$  for  $i=1,\ldots,|M|$ .

For security we will require the output of encryption to look like a random string. Consider the game  $\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},b}(\mathcal{A})$  shown on the right side of Figure 1. It is parameterized by a symmetric encryption scheme  $\mathsf{SE}$ , adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , and bit  $b \in \{0,1\}$ . The adversary is given access to an oracle ENC which, on input a message M, returns either the encryption of that message or a random string of the appropriate length according to the secret bit b. The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  against  $\mathsf{SE}$  is defined by  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE}}(\mathcal{A}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},0}(\mathcal{A})] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},0}(\mathcal{A})]$ .

### 3 Sample-Then-Extract

The StE = StE[F, k, Ext] scheme is defined in Figure 2: It was originally proposed by Tessaro and Thiruvengadam [44], and it is based on ideas from the context of locally-computable extractors [46]. The scheme is extended here to encrypt multiple blocks of message with the same randomness  $R_1 \ldots, R_k$ , and the same extractor seed sd. The scheme StE[F, k, Ext] uses a keyed function family F which maps  $\{0,1\}^n$  to  $\{0,1\}^n$ , as well as an extractor Ext:  $\{0,1\}^{kn} \times \{0,1\}^s \to \{0,1\}^\ell$ .

Below, we instantiate the extractor Ext with 2-universal hash function [13]. We recall that  $h: \{0,1\}^w \times \{0,1\}^s \to \{0,1\}^\ell$  is 2-universal if for all distinct  $x,y \in \{0,1\}^w$ , it holds that  $\Pr[\mathsf{sd} \overset{\$}{\leftarrow}$ 

{10}------------------------------------------------

```
Scheme StErF, k, Exts
Procedure EncpK, Mq
B Ð |M|`
M1, . . . , MB Ð M ; sd $Ð t0, 1u
                                 s
R " pR1, ..., Rkq
                  $Ð
                     ´
                      t0, 1u
                            n´rlog ks
                                    ¯k
For i P rBs do
  For j P rks do
     Vi,j Ð FpK,pj ´ 1q}pRj ` i ´ 1qq
For i P rBs do
  Ci Ð Mi ' ExtpVi,1}...}Vi,k,sdq
Return psd, R, C1, . . . , CBq
                                                           Procedure DecpK, Cq
                                                           psd, R, C1, . . . , CBq Ð C
                                                           For i P rBs do
                                                              For j P rks do
                                                                Vi,j Ð FpK,pj ´ 1q}pRj ` i ´ 1qq
                                                           For i P rBs do
                                                              Mi Ð Ci ' ExtpVi,1} ¨ ¨ ¨ }Vi,k,sdq
                                                           Return M1} ¨ ¨ ¨ }MB
```

<span id="page-10-0"></span>Fig. 2. The sample-then-extract encryption scheme SE " StErF, k, Exts, with F.Dom " t0, 1u n . All additions and subtractions are done under modulus 2<sup>n</sup>´rlog <sup>k</sup><sup>s</sup> . The key space and message space of SE are SE.Ks " F.Ks and SE.M " pt0, 1u ` q `.

t0, 1u s : hpx,sdq " hpy,sdqs " 2 ´` . For conciseness, we often write hsdpxq " hpx,sdq. If ` ď s, a construction with w " s interprets both the input x and the seed sd as elements of the extension field F2<sup>w</sup> , and hpx,sdq consists of the first ` bits of the product of x and sd.

A small-ciphertext version of StE. We also study a version of StE which produces small ciphertexts, using techniques from randomness efficient sampling. The proof resembles that for StE given below, and the details are deferred to Appendix [C.](#page-40-0)

### 3.1 Security of StE

The security of StE scheme is captured by the following theorem. We first consider the case where F is a PRF – which we prove below first. We will state a very similar theorem for the PRP case below.[8](#page-10-1)

The proof of the main theorem is deferred to Section [3.2.](#page-12-0)

<span id="page-10-2"></span>Theorem 1 (Security of StE). Let N " 2 n , let F : F.Ks ˆ t0, 1u <sup>n</sup> Ñ t0, 1u n be a keyed function family. Let Ext be a 2-universal hash function h : t0, 1u kn ˆ t0, 1u kn Ñ t0, 1u ` . For any S-bounded q-query adversary Aindr, where each query consists of messages of at most B `-bit blocks such that B ď N{k, there exists an S-bounded PRF adversary Aprf (with similar time complexity as Aindr) that issues at most qkB queries to the oracle, such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{F},k,\mathsf{h}]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) + \sqrt{\frac{1}{2}qB\varepsilon} \;,$$

where

$$\varepsilon = \frac{\ell}{N^k} + \sum_{t=0}^k {k \choose t} \left( \frac{(2S+2kn)B}{N} \right)^t \cdot \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot (2/N)^{k-t}\} \ .$$

<span id="page-10-1"></span><sup>8</sup> The PRP assumption leads to more straightforward instantiations via a block cipher. The PRF instantiation is trickier, as we need PRFs that are highly secure – these can be instantiated with a much higher cost from a good PRP (See Section [4.2\)](#page-26-1).

{11}------------------------------------------------

Instantiations and interpretations.We discuss instantiations of the above theorem for specific parameter regimes. We consider two choices of `, which result in different bounds. In fact, a subtle aspect of the bound is the appearance of a min: Depending on the choice of ` (relative to N), we will have different t ˚ such that 2``<sup>1</sup> ¨ p2{Nq <sup>k</sup>´<sup>t</sup> ą ` for all t ă t ˚ , and the value t ˚ affects the bound.

We give two corollaries. The first one dispenses with any fine-tuning, and just upper bounds the min with 2``<sup>1</sup> ¨ p2{Nq k´t . This bound however is enough to give us a strong trade-off of q " ΩpN<sup>k</sup> {S k q for ` " Op1q. However, for another common target, ` " n, this would give us q " ΩpNk´<sup>1</sup> {S k q. Our second corollary will show how the setting t ˚ in that case will lead to a stronger lower bound of q " ΩpNk´<sup>1</sup> {S k´1 q. (In both cases, we are stating this for B " 1.)

<span id="page-11-0"></span>Corollary 1. With the same setup as Theorem [1,](#page-10-2) we have

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{F},k,\mathsf{h}]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) + \sqrt{2^{\ell}qB\left(\frac{(2S+2kn)B+3}{N}\right)^{k}} \; .$$

<span id="page-11-1"></span>Corollary 2. With the same setup as Theorem [1,](#page-10-2) in addition to n " `, n ě 4, and k ě 2, we have

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{F},k,\mathsf{h}]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) + \sqrt{2qBk\left(\frac{(2S+2kn)B+4n}{N}\right)^{k-1}} \;.$$

We defer the proof of both corollaries to Appendix [B.](#page-37-0)

We further provides an analysis over parameters of practical interests. Concretely, if we instantiate F by a PRF that maps 128-bit to 128-bit, that is, N " 2 <sup>128</sup>, and we let the block size ` " 128 bit. Then for any adversary that uses at most S " 2 <sup>80</sup> bit of memory and encrypts at most 1GB message per query (i.e. B " 2 <sup>33</sup>´<sup>7</sup> " 2 <sup>26</sup>), by following the coarse analysis of Corollary [1](#page-11-0) and letting k " 15, our scheme can tolerate roughly q " 2 <sup>p</sup>128´80´26´1q¨15´128´<sup>26</sup> " 2 <sup>161</sup> queries. However, we do not need such a large k to achieve q ą N. Notice that ` " n " 128, we can use Corollary [2](#page-11-1) to improve the analysis. Then by setting k " 9, we have q " 2 <sup>p</sup>128´80´26´1q¨pk´1q´26´<sup>1</sup> " 2 <sup>21</sup>¨8´<sup>27</sup> " 2 141 queries encrypting 1GB message. Note that similar analysis can be obtained when adapting the following PRP instantiation.

PRP instantiation. The security of StE instantiated by a PRP is captured by the following theorem. Since the StE-PRP security proof is similar to StE-PRF proof (the latter is slightly easier to present), we will just provide a proof sketch for the PRP case in Appendix [A,](#page-35-0) highlighting the modifications from the PRF case.

<span id="page-11-2"></span>Theorem 2 (Security of StE in PRP). Let N " 2 <sup>n</sup> ě 16, let F : F.Ks ˆ t0, 1u <sup>n</sup> Ñ t0, 1u n be a keyed permutation family. Let Ext be a 2-universal hash function h : t0, 1u kn ˆ t0, 1u kn Ñ t0, 1u ` . For any S-bounded q-query adversary Aindr, where each query consists of messages of at most B `-bit blocks such that pS ` kpn ` 1qqB ď N{2, there exists an S-bounded PRF adversary Aprf (with similar time complexity as Aindr) that issues at most qkB queries to the oracle, such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{F},k,\mathsf{h}]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) + \sqrt{\frac{1}{2}qB\varepsilon} \;,$$

where

$$\varepsilon = \frac{\ell}{N^k} + \sum_{t=0}^k {k \choose t} \left( \frac{(4S + 4kn)B}{N} \right)^t \cdot \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot (16/N)^{k-t}\} .$$

{12}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-12-0"></span>3.2 Proof of Theorem 1

OUTLINE AND PRELIMINARIES. Most of the proof will consider the StE scheme with direct access to a random function  $\mathsf{RF}_{n,n}$ . It is immediate to derive a bound when the scheme is instantiated by  $\mathsf{F}$  at the cost of an additive term  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_\mathsf{F}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}})$ .

We will be using Lemma 1, applied to a stream consisting of encryptions of the all-zero plaintext (padded to B blocks) or truly random ciphertexts, which we define more formally below. In particular, this will require upper bounding the difference in Shannon entropy (from uniform) of the output of the i-th query, given the adversary's state at that point. As in the proof of the k-XOR construction, we relax our requirements a little, and assume the adversary can generate arbitrary S bits of leakage of RF. We will then be using a version of the leftover-hash lemma for bounding Shannon entropy (Proposition 1) to prove the desired bound.

We would naturally need (at the very least) to understand the min-entropy of  $V_{i,1} \| \cdots \| V_{i,k}$  conditioned on the stage  $\sigma_i$ . In fact, we will use an even more fine-grained approach, and see  $V_{i,1} \| \cdots \| V_{i,k}$  as the convex combination of variables with different levels of entropy. To this end, we will use an approach due to Göös et al. [32] which decomposes a random variable with high min-entropy (in this case, the random function table *conditioned* on  $\sigma_i$ ) into a convex combination of (easier to work with) *dense variables*. We use here the definition from [15]:

**Definition 1.** A random variable X with range  $[M]^N$  is called:

-  $(1 - \delta)$ -dense if for every subset  $I \subseteq [N]$ , the random variable  $X_I$ , which is X restricted on coordinates set I, satisfies

$$\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(X_I) \geqslant (1 - \delta) \cdot |I| \cdot \log M$$
.

-  $(P, 1 - \delta)$ -dense if at most P coordinates of X is fixed and X is  $(1 - \delta)$ -dense on the rest coordinates

Streaming setup. We first define some notations. We use bold-face to denote a vector  $\mathbf{R} = (R_1, \dots, R_k)$ . Moreover, we define

$$\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}} = (R_1 + j - 1, R_2 + j - 1, ..., R_k + j - 1) ,$$

and  $\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j\}} = (\mathbf{R}^{\{1\}}, \mathbf{R}^{\{2\}}, \dots, \mathbf{R}^{\{j\}})$ . For a function F with n-bit inputs, we can further define

$$F[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}] := F(0 \parallel R_1 + j - 1) \parallel \cdots \parallel F(k - 1 \parallel R_k + j - 1)).$$

Naturally, we extend this to

$$F[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j\}}] := (F[\mathbf{R}^{\{1\}}], F[\mathbf{R}^{\{2\}}], ..., F[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}])$$

Below, we first prove an upper bound for streaming indistinguishability and later upper bound  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{RF},k,\mathsf{h}]}$  via the streaming distinguishing advantage. To this end, we define the following two sequences  $\mathbf{X} = (X_1, \dots, X_q)$  and  $\mathbf{Y} = (Y_1, \dots, Y_q)$  of random variables such that:

- $X_i = (W_i, \operatorname{sd}_i, \mathbf{R}_i)$ , where  $W_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^{B \cdot \ell}$ ,
- $Y_i = (\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}_i}(F[\mathbf{R}_i^{\{1\}}]), \dots, \mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}_i}(F[\mathbf{R}_i^{\{B\}}]), \mathsf{sd}_i, \mathbf{R}_i)$ , where F is randomly chosen function from n bits to n bits. (Note that the same sampled function is used across all  $Y_i$ 's.)

In both streams,  $\operatorname{sd}_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^s$ , and  $\mathbf{R}_i = (R_{i,1}, \dots, R_{i,k})$  is a vector of k random probes. We use L to denote the string length of the stream elements, i.e.,

$$L = |X_i| = |Y_i| = B\ell + s + k(n - \log k)$$
.

{13}------------------------------------------------

MAIN LEMMA. We will use Lemma 1, and rely on the following lemma, which is the core of our analysis.

<span id="page-13-1"></span>**Lemma 2.** For any S-bounded adversary A and for all  $i \in [q]$ ,

$$\mathsf{H}(Y_i \mid \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y}))) \geqslant L - B\varepsilon$$

where

$$\varepsilon = \frac{\ell}{N^k} + \sum_{t=0}^k \binom{k}{t} \left( \frac{(2S + 2kn)B}{N} \right)^t \cdot \min \left\{ \ell, 2^{\ell+1} \left( \frac{2}{N} \right)^{k-t} \right\} \ .$$

*Proof* (of Lemma 2). First, we point out that we can easily find a deterministic function  $\mathcal{L}$  such that

$$\mathsf{H}(Y_i \mid \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y}))) \geqslant \mathsf{H}(Y \mid \mathcal{L}(F))$$
.

The function  $\mathcal{L}$  is first easily described in randomized form: given F, first simulates the first i-1 steps of the interaction of  $\mathcal{A}$  with the stream  $(Y_1, \ldots, Y_{i-1})$  (by sampling  $\operatorname{sd}_1, \ldots, \operatorname{sd}_{i-1}$ , as well as  $\mathbf{R}_1, \ldots, \mathbf{R}_{i-1}$  itself), and then outputs  $\sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y}))$ . Then,  $\mathcal{L}$  can be made deterministic by fixing the randomness. Therefore, we will now lower bound  $\operatorname{H}(Y \mid \mathcal{L}(F))$  for an arbitrary function  $\mathcal{L}$ .

We now want to better characterize the distribution of F conditioned on  $\mathcal{L}(F)$ . To this end, we use the following lemma, originally due to Göös et al [32], here in a format stated in [14,15].

<span id="page-13-2"></span>**Lemma 3.** If  $\Gamma$  is a random variable with range  $[N]^N$  with min-entropy deficiency  $S_{\Gamma} = n \cdot N - H_{\infty}(\Gamma)$ , then for every  $\delta > 0$ ,  $\gamma > 0$ ,  $\Gamma$  can be represented as a convex combination of finitely many  $(P, 1 - \delta)$ -dense variables  $\{\Lambda_1, \Lambda_2, ...\}$  for

<span id="page-13-4"></span><span id="page-13-3"></span>
$$P = \frac{S_{\Gamma} + \log 1/\gamma}{\delta \cdot n}$$

and an additional random variable  $\Lambda_{\sf end}$  whose weight is less than  $\gamma.$ 

For every  $z \in \{0,1\}^S$ , we define  $F_z$  to be the random function F conditioned on  $\mathcal{L}(F) = z$ . We define accordingly its min-entropy deficiency  $S_z = n \cdot N - \mathsf{H}_{\infty}(F_z)$ . Also, we set  $\delta_z = \frac{S_z + \log 1/\gamma}{P \cdot n}$ , for some P to be chosen below. By applying Lemma 3,  $F_z$  is decomposed into finite number of  $(P, 1 - \delta_z)$ -dense variables  $\{\Lambda_{z,1}, \Lambda_{z,2}, \ldots\}$ , and an additional variable  $\Lambda_{z,\text{end}}$  with weight less than  $\gamma$ . We use  $\alpha_i$  to denote the weight of each decomposed dense variable in the convex combination. It holds that  $\sum_t \alpha_t \ge 1 - \gamma$ . Also, by the concavity of conditional entropy over probability mass functions,

$$\mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}]) \mid \mathsf{sd}, \mathbf{R}, F_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) \geqslant \sum_t \alpha_t \cdot \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(\Lambda_{z,t}[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}]) \mid \mathsf{sd}, \mathbf{R}, \Lambda_{z,t}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) \ . \tag{4}$$

It will be sufficient now to give a single entropy lower bound for any variable  $\Lambda$  which is  $(P, 1 - \delta_z)$ -dense, and apply the bound to all  $\{\Lambda_{z,1}, \Lambda_{z,2}, \dots\}$ . In particular, now note that

$$\mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(\Lambda[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}]) \mid \mathsf{sd}, \mathbf{R}, \Lambda[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) = \underset{\boldsymbol{r}}{\mathbf{E}} \left[ \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(\Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}}]) \mid \mathsf{sd}, \Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) \right] \\
\geqslant \ell - \underset{\boldsymbol{r}}{\mathbf{E}} \left[ \min \left\{ \ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}}] \mid \Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}])} \right\} \right] . \tag{5}$$

<span id="page-13-0"></span>The last inequality follows from the following version of the Leftover Hash Lemma for Shannon entropy. (We give a proof in Appendix B.2 for completeness, but note that the proof is similar to that of [10].)

{14}------------------------------------------------

**Proposition 1.** If  $h: \{0,1\}^w \times \{0,1\}^s \to \{0,1\}^\ell$  is a 2-universal hash function, then for any random variables  $W \in \{0,1\}^w$  and Z, if seed  $\mathsf{sd} \leftarrow \{0,1\}^s$ 

$$\mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W) \mid \mathsf{sd}, Z) \geqslant \ell - \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W|Z)}\}$$
.

First off, note that

$$\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}}] \mid \boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) = -\log \left( \sum_{\boldsymbol{V} \in ([N]^k)^{j-1}} \max_{\boldsymbol{v} \in [N]^k} \mathsf{Pr}\left[\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j\}}] = \boldsymbol{V} \, \| \, \boldsymbol{v}\right] \right)$$

where V enumerates all possible outcome of  $\Lambda[\mathbf{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}] = (\Lambda[\mathbf{r}^{\{1\}}], ..., \Lambda[\mathbf{r}^{\{j-1\}}])$ , and v iterates over all possible outcome of  $\Lambda[\mathbf{r}^{\{j\}}]$ .

Now, suppose that exactly t probes of  $\mathbf{r}^{\{j\}}$  hit the P fixed coordinates of  $\Lambda$  and assume that  $t_0$  coordinates of  $\mathbf{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}$  are fixed. Then, using the fact that  $\Lambda$  is  $(1-\delta)$ -dense on the remaining  $jk-t-t_0$  coordinates, by the union bound,

$$\begin{split} \log \left( \sum_{V \in ([N]^k)^{j-1}} \max_{v \in [N]^k} \Pr\left[ \Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j\}}] = V \parallel v \right] \right) \\ & \leq \log \left( N^{k(j-1)-t_0} \cdot N^{-(1-\delta)(jk-t-t_0)} \right) \\ &= n \left[ k(j-1) - t_0 - (1-\delta)(k(j-1)-t_0) \right] + n \left[ -(1-\delta)(k-t) \right] \\ &= n \left[ \delta \left( k(j-1) - t_0 \right) \right] + n \left[ -(1-\delta)(k-t) \right] \\ & \leq n \left[ \delta k(j-1) - (1-\delta)(k-t) \right] \; . \end{split}$$

Therefore, if t probes of  $r^{\{j\}}$  hit the P fixed coordinates of  $\Lambda$ , we have

$$\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\Lambda[\mathbf{r}^{\{j\}}] \mid \Lambda[\mathbf{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) \geqslant n[(1-\delta)(k-t) - \delta k(j-1)]$$
 (6)

Now, for  $1 \le t \le k$ , we let  $P_t$  to be the number of fixed coordinates in the domain of t-th probe – in particular,  $0 \le P_t \le N/k$  and  $\sum_t P_t = P$ . Then, let

$$\mu := \underset{\boldsymbol{r}}{\mathbf{E}} \left[ \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}}] | \boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}])}\} \right]$$

as in (5). Then,

$$\mu \leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} \sum_{U \in {[k] \choose t}} \left( \prod_{u \in U} \left( \frac{P_u}{N/k} \right) \prod_{v \notin U} \left( 1 - \frac{P_v}{N/k} \right) \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} N^{\delta(j-1)k + (\delta-1)(k-t)}\} \right)$$

$$\leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} \sum_{U \in {[k] \choose t}} \left( \prod_{u \in U} \left( \frac{P_u}{N/k} \right) \cdot \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot N^{\delta(j-1)k + (\delta-1)(k-t)}\} \right).$$

In Appendix B.2, we show that the above expression is maximized when  $P_u = P/k$  for all u, and thus

$$\mu \leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} {k \choose t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^t \cdot \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot N^{\delta(j-1)k + (\delta-1)(k-t)}\}$$

$$= \sum_{t=0}^{k} {k \choose t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^t \cdot \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{\frac{(S_z + \log(1/\gamma))}{P}(jk - t)} \frac{1}{N^{k-t}}\} =: \nu.$$

{15}------------------------------------------------

Plugging this into [\(4\)](#page-13-4) yields

<span id="page-15-1"></span>
$$\mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}]) \mid \mathsf{sd}, \mathbf{R}, F_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) \geqslant (1-\gamma) \cdot (\ell-\nu) \ . \tag{7}$$

Next, we will need to take everything in expectation over the sampling of F (and hence of z " LpFq). To this end, we use the following claim to compute Ezrνs.

Claim. For any 0 ď t ď k, 1 ď j ď B, if P ě Bk ´ t, then it holds that:

$$\mathbf{E}_z \left[ 2^{\frac{S_z(jk-t)}{P}} \right] \leqslant 2^{\frac{S(Bk-t)}{P}} .$$

Proof. Clearly, Ezr2 Szpjk´tq <sup>P</sup> s ď Ezr2 SzpBk´tq <sup>P</sup> s. Now, note that PrrLpFq " zs " 2 ´S<sup>z</sup> . Therefore,

$$\mathbf{E}_{z}\left[2^{\frac{S_{z}(Bk-t)}{P}}\right] = \sum_{z} 2^{-S_{z}} \cdot 2^{\frac{S_{z}(Bk-t)}{P}} = \sum_{z} 2^{-S_{z}(1-\frac{Bk-t}{P})}.$$

Further note that, when P " Bk ´ t, the inequality trivially holds true. When P ą Bk ´ t, by H¨older's inequality,

$$\mathbf{E}_{z} \left[ 2^{\frac{S_{z}(Bk-t)}{P}} \right] = \sum_{z} 2^{-S_{z}(1-\frac{Bk-t}{P})}$$

$$\leq \left( \sum_{z} \left( 2^{-S_{z}(1-\frac{Bk-t}{P})} \right)^{1/(1-\frac{Bk-t}{P})} \right)^{1-\frac{Bk-t}{P}} \cdot \left( \sum_{z} 1^{\frac{P}{Bk-t}} \right)^{\frac{Bk-t}{P}}$$

$$\leq 1^{1-\frac{Bk-t}{P}} \cdot 2^{\frac{S(Bk-t)}{P}} = 2^{\frac{S(Bk-t)}{P}}.$$

Now, note that for any function f,

<span id="page-15-0"></span>
$$\mathbf{E}_{z}[\min\{\ell, f(z)\}] = \sum_{z} \Pr[z] \cdot \min\{\ell, f(z)\} \leqslant \min\{\ell, \mathbf{E}_{z}[f(z)]\}, \qquad (8)$$

[\

because minta, bu`mintc, du ď minta`c, b`du for any a, b, c, d. Using [\(8\)](#page-15-0), combined with linearity of expectation and the above claim,

$$\mathbf{E}_{z}[\mu] \leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^{t} \cdot \mathbf{E}_{z} \left[ \min \left\{ \ell, \frac{2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{\frac{(S_{z} + \log(1/\gamma))}{P}(jk-t)}}{N^{k-t}} \right\} \right]$$

$$\leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^{t} \cdot \min \left\{ \ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot \mathbf{E}_{z} \left[ \frac{2^{\frac{(S_{z} + \log(1/\gamma))}{P}(jk-t)}}{N^{k-t}} \right] \right\}$$

$$\leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^{t} \cdot \min \left\{ \ell, \frac{2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{\frac{(S + \log(1/\gamma))}{P}(Bk-t)}}{N^{k-t}} \right\}.$$

<span id="page-15-2"></span>Further, we will now finally set γ " N ´<sup>k</sup> and P " pS ` knqB ě Bk and simplify this to

$$\mathbf{E}_{z}[\mu] \leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} {k \choose t} \left(\frac{(S+kn)B}{N}\right)^{t} \cdot \min\left\{\ell, \frac{2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{k}}{N^{k-t}}\right\}$$

$$= \sum_{t=0}^{k} {k \choose t} \left(\frac{2(S+kn)B}{N}\right)^{t} \cdot \min\left\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot \left(\frac{2}{N}\right)^{k-t}\right\} ,$$
(9)

{16}------------------------------------------------

because  $\frac{S + \log 1/\gamma}{P} \cdot (Bk - t) \leq \frac{1}{B}Bk \leq k$ . Therefore, taking expectations of (7), and using (9), yields

$$\begin{aligned} &\mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}]) \mid \mathsf{sd}, \mathbf{R}, F[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}], \mathcal{L}(F)) \\ &\geqslant (1 - \frac{1}{N^k}) \cdot \left(\ell - \sum_{t=0}^k \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{2(S + kn)B}{N}\right)^t \cdot \min\left\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot \left(\frac{2}{N}\right)^{k-t}\right\}\right) \\ &\geqslant \ell - \sum_{t=0}^k \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{2(S + kn)B}{N}\right)^t \cdot \min\left\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot \left(\frac{2}{N}\right)^{k-t}\right\} - \frac{\ell}{N^k} \,. \end{aligned}$$

The proof is concluded by applying chain rule of conditional entropy and obtain

$$\begin{split} & \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F[\mathbf{R}^{\{1\}}]),...,\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F[\mathbf{R}^{\{B\}}]),\mathsf{sd},\mathbf{R} \mid \mathcal{L}(F)) \\ & = \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{sd},\mathbf{R} \mid \mathcal{L}(F)) + \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F[\mathbf{R}^{\{1\}}]),...,\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F[\mathbf{R}^{\{B\}}]) \mid \mathsf{sd},\mathbf{R},\mathcal{L}(F)) \\ & = L - B\ell + \sum_{j=1}^{B} \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}]) \mid \mathsf{sd},\mathbf{R},\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F[\mathbf{R}^{\{1\}}]),...,\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(F[\mathbf{R}^{\{j-1\}}]),\mathcal{L}(F)) \\ & \geqslant L - B\left(\sum_{t=0}^{k} \left(\binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{(2S + 2kn)B}{N}\right)^{t} \cdot \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot (2/N)^{k-t}\}\right) + \frac{\ell}{N^{k}}\right) \,. \end{split}$$

*Proof (of Theorem 1).* We claim that there exists an S-bounded PRF adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  (about as efficient as  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$  and making at most qkB queries to oracle FN) such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{F},k,\mathsf{h}]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{RF},k,\mathsf{h}]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) \; .$$

Note that this is a standard argument, in which we shall also reduce the  $\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{RF},k,\mathsf{h}]}$  to streaming indistinguishability, and claim that there is an S-bounded streaming distinguisher  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{dist}}$  such that,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{RF},k,h]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) = \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{\mathbf{X},\mathbf{Y}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{dist}}) \;,$$

where the sampling of stream Y depends on function  $F \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{Fcs}(\{0,1\}^n,\{0,1\}^n)$ .

Consider the game  $G_0$ ,  $G_1$  in Figure 3. Note that  $G_1$  perfectly simulates the case where the returned ciphertexts are random bits. We introduce a single intermediate hybrid H that replaces the keyed function F in Game  $G_0$  by the random function RF. Hence,

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{F},k,h]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) &= \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}_1] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}_0] \\ &= (\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}_1] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}]) + (\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}_0]) \\ &= \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{RF},k,h]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) + (\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}_0] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}]) \;. \end{split}$$

We show that there exists a PRF adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}$  such that

$$\text{Pr}[\mathsf{G}_0] - \text{Pr}[\mathsf{H}] = \text{Adv}_{\mathsf{F}}^{\text{prf}}(\mathcal{A}_{\text{prf}}) \;,$$

and  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  is (roughly) as efficient as  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$ . The constructed  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  operates as the following: upon given oracle access to either the keyed function F or the random function F,  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  invokes  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$ 

{17}------------------------------------------------

```
Game \mathsf{G}_b
                                                                                                                                            Game H
K \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} F.Ks
b' \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{A}_{indr}^{ENC^b}
                                                                                                                                           F \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{Fcs}(\{0,1\}^n, \{0,1\}^n)
                                                                                                                                           b' \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}^{\mathsf{E}_{\mathsf{NC}}^H}
 Return b' = 1
                                                                                                                                            Return b' = 1
 \mathrm{Enc}^b(M)
                                                                                                                                           \mathrm{Enc}^{\mathsf{H}}(M)
 B \leftarrow |M|_{\ell}
                                                                                                                                           B \leftarrow |M|_{\ell}
M_1, \ldots, M_B \leftarrow M \; ; \; \mathsf{sd} \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^s
                                                                                                                                           M_1, \ldots, M_B \leftarrow M \; ; \; \mathsf{sd} \xleftarrow{\$} \{0, 1\}^s
R = (R_1, ..., R_k) \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} (\{0, 1\}^{n - \lceil \log k \rceil})^k
                                                                                                                                          R = (R_1, ..., R_k) \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \left( \{0, 1\}^{n - \lceil \log k \rceil} \right)^k
For i \in [B] do
                                                                                                                                           For i \in [B] do
       For j \in [k] do
                                                                                                                                                 For j \in [k] do
             V_{i,j} \leftarrow \mathsf{F}(K, (j-1) \| (R_j + i - 1))
                                                                                                                                                       V_{i,j} \leftarrow F((j-1) || (R_j + i - 1))
For i \in [B] do
                                                                                                                                           For i \in [B] do
C_i^0 \leftarrow M_i \oplus \operatorname{Ext}(V_{i,1} \| ... \| V_{i,k}, \operatorname{sd})
C_i^1 \leftarrow M_i \oplus U_{\ell}
Return (\operatorname{sd}, R, C_1^b, \dots, C_B^b)
                                                                                                                                          C_i^H \leftarrow M_i \oplus \operatorname{Ext}(V_{i,1} || ... || V_{i,k}, \operatorname{sd})
Return (\operatorname{sd}, R, C_1^H, ..., C_B^H)
```

<span id="page-17-0"></span>Fig. 3. Games and adversaries used in the proof of Theorem 1.

and answers queries from  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$  by simulating the encryption scheme. Namely, when  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  receives an encryption request, it samples the probe vector  $\mathbf{R}$  and the seed  $\mathbf{sd}$ . Then, it computes each  $V_{i,j}$  by querying the function oracle and returns the ciphertext that is obtained through xoring the plaintext with the extracted random bits from  $V_{i,j}$ s. If the accessed function is the keyed function  $\mathsf{F}$ , then  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  perfectly simulates the game  $\mathsf{G}_0$  for  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$ . Otherwise, it simulates the game  $\mathsf{H}$ . Note that  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  only runs  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$  internally, queries the function oracle at most qkB times and computes extractors. Hence,  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  is as efficient as  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$  in terms of both computation time and memory.

We proceed to reduce the  $Adv_{StE[RF,k,h]}^{indr}$  to streaming indistinguishability. Here, we consider only the case the adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$  asks for encrypting exactly B blocks upon each query, because we can always reduce any adversary that queries fewer than B blocks to this case by padding to B blocks. Namely, we show that for any S-bounded adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$ , there exists an S-bounded streaming adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{dist}$  which is as efficient as  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$  such that,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{RF},k,h]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) = \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{\mathbf{X},\mathbf{Y}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{dist}})$$

where the sampling of stream Y depends on function  $F \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{Fcs}(\{0,1\}^n,\{0,1\}^n)$ .

We construct the streaming distinguisher  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  so that, when receiving either stream  $\mathbf{X}$  or  $\mathbf{Y}$ , it internally runs the adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{indr}}$ . Recall that the streaming distinguisher  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  is divided into multiple steps, and it is S-bounded if the state  $\sigma_i$  kept between steps satisfies  $|\sigma_i| \leq S$ . At the beginning of the i-th step,  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  maintains  $\sigma_{i-1}$ , which is the S-bit state of  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{indr}}$ . Then, it receives a stream element  $V_i$ . The distinguisher  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  keeps internally running  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{indr}}$  and receives the i-th encryption query of plaintext  $M_i$ . it then returns the ciphertext  $C_i = M_i \oplus V_i$  to the  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{indr}}$  and set  $\sigma_i$  to be the current state of  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{indr}}$ . Note that when the stream is  $\mathbf{X}$ ,  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  perfectly simulates the game  $\mathsf{G}_1$ . When the stream is  $\mathbf{Y}$ ,  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  perfectly simulates the game  $\mathsf{H}$  for  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{indr}}$ . Finally,  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  receives the prediction bit b' from  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{indr}}$  and outputs 1-b' as the prediction result. Note that the streaming distinguisher  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  keeps exactly S bit state between steps, implying  $\mathcal{A}_{\text{dist}}$  is S-bounded. Hence the conclusion follows.

{18}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-18-0"></span>**Fig. 4.** The k-XOR encryption scheme, SE = Xor[F, k]. The key space and message space of SE are SE.Ks = F.Ks and SE.M = F.Rng.

Therefore, by applying Lemma 1 and Lemma 2 we have,

$$\begin{split} & \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}[\mathsf{RF},k,h]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) = \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{\mathbf{X},\mathbf{Y}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{dist}}) \leqslant \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^q (L - \mathsf{H}(Y_i | \sigma_{i-1}))} \\ & \leqslant \sqrt{\frac{qB}{2} \cdot \left(\sum_{t=0}^k \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{2(S+kn)B}{N}\right)^t \cdot \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot (2/N)^{k-t}\} + \frac{\ell}{N^k}\right)} \;. \end{split}$$

Hence we conclude the proof of the main theorem.

## 4 Time-Memory Trade-Off for the k-XOR Construction

In this section, we show that the k-XOR construction (given in Figure 4), first analyzed by Bellare, Goldreich, and Krawczyk [7] in the memory-independent setting, is secure upto  $q = (N/S)^{k/2}$  queries for S-bounded adversaries. For the rest of the section, we fix positive integers n and k (required to be even) and let  $N = 2^n$ .

<span id="page-18-1"></span>**Theorem 3.** Let  $F : F.Ks \times \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^m$  be a function family. Let SE = Xor[F,k] be the k-XOR encryption scheme for some positive integer k. Let  $A_{indr}$  be an S-bounded INDR-adversary against SE that makes at most q queries to ENC. Then, an S-bounded PRF-adversary  $A_{prf}$  can be constructed such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{SE}}^{\mathsf{indr}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{F}}^{\mathsf{prf}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) + 2mq \cdot \sqrt{\left(\frac{4(S+nk)}{N}\right)^{k}} \ . \tag{10}$$

Moreover,  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  makes at most  $q \cdot k$  queries to its FN oracle and has running time about that of  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$ .

DISCUSSION OF BOUNDS. Our bound supports q > N even with relative small k. Concretely, suppose  $S = 2^{80}$  and  $N = 2^{128}$ . Then for k = 6, we can already support upto roughly  $q = 2^{(128-80)\cdot(6/2)-8} = 2^{136}$  queries. Note that it does not makes sense to set q < S in our bound. This is because q queries can be stored with O(q) memory. Furthermore, if q < N/k, then one can apply the memory independent bound of Bellare, Goldreich, and Krawczyk [7] which is of the form  $O(q^2/N^k)$ . Hence, our bound really shines when  $q \ge N$ . Lastly, we suspect that our bound is likely not tight in general (it is when  $S = O(k \log N)$ ). In Section 4.3, we show attacks for a broader range of values of S that achieve constant success advantage with  $q = O(\left(\frac{N}{S}\right)^k)$ .

{19}------------------------------------------------

The above theorem also requires  $\mathsf{F}$  to be a good  $\mathsf{PRF}$  – we discuss how to instantiate it from a block cipher in Section 4.2 below.

Theorem 3 follows from standard hybrid arguments and the single-bit case under random functions, i.e. INDR security of  $Xor[RF_{n,1}, k]$ , which is captured by the following lemma.

<span id="page-19-0"></span>**Lemma 4.** Let  $SE = Xor[RF_{n,1}, k]$  be the k-XOR encryption scheme for some positive integer k. For any S-bounded adversary  $A_{indr}$  that makes q queries to Enc,

$$\mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{SE}}^{\mathsf{indr}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant 2q \cdot \sqrt{\left(\frac{4(S+nk)}{N}\right)^k} \ . \tag{11}$$

The proof of Theorem 3 from Lemma 4 consists of standard hybrid arguments (over switching PRF output to random, then over m-output bits to independently random). We shall first prove Lemma 4 and defer the hybrid arguments for later in this section.

BIT-DISTINGUISHING TO BIT-GUESSING. It shall be convenient to consider the following information theoretic quantity  $Guess(\cdot)$ , defined for any bit-value random variable B as  $Guess(B) = |2 \cdot \Pr[B=1] - 1|$ . As usual, we extend this to conditioning via  $Guess(B \mid Z) = \mathbf{E}_z [Guess(B \mid Z=z)]$ . Intuitively,  $Guess(B \mid Z)$  denotes the best possible guessing advantage for bit B, which is also the best bit-distinguishing advantage. Note that if U is a uniform random bit that is independent of Z (B and Z could be correlated), then for any adversary A,

<span id="page-19-1"></span>
$$\Pr\left[\mathcal{A}(B,Z) \Rightarrow 1\right] - \Pr\left[\mathcal{A}(U,Z) \Rightarrow 1\right] \leqslant \operatorname{Guess}(B \mid Z) . \tag{12}$$

*Proof of Lemma 4.* Consider the INDR games  $\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},0}$  and  $\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},1}$ . We would like to bound

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) = \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},1}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}})] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},0}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}})]$$

Towards this end, let us consider hybrid games  $H_0, \ldots, H_q$  as follows.

$$\frac{\text{Game } \mathsf{H}_{i}}{F \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{Fcs}(\{0,1\}^{n},\{0,1\})} \qquad \frac{\mathsf{ENC}_{i}(M)}{(R_{1},\ldots,R_{k}) \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} (\{0,1\}^{n})^{k}} 
j \leftarrow 0 \; ; \; b \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{A}^{\mathsf{ENC}_{i}}_{\mathsf{indr}} \qquad \text{If } j \geqslant i \; \mathsf{then} \; Z \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\} 
\mathsf{Return} \; b = 1 \qquad \qquad \mathsf{Else} \; Z \leftarrow F(R_{1}) \oplus \cdots \oplus F(R_{k}) \oplus M 
j \leftarrow j + 1 \; ; \; \mathsf{Return} \; (R_{1},\ldots,R_{k},Z)$$

Note that  $H_0 = \mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},0}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}})$  (ideal) and  $\mathsf{H}_q = \mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},1}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}})$  (real). Fix some  $i \in \{1,\ldots,q\}$ . Let  $B_i = F(R_{i,1}) \oplus \cdots \oplus F(R_{i,k})$ . It holds (by (12)) that

<span id="page-19-2"></span>
$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{H}_{i}\right] - \Pr\left[\mathsf{H}_{i-1}\right] \leqslant \operatorname{Guess}(B_{i} \mid \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}), (R_{i,1}, \dots, R_{i,k})), \tag{13}$$

where  $\sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}})$  is the state of  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}$  right the point where it makes its *i*-th query to  $\mathsf{ENC}_i$  (and we assume this query to contain M), and  $R_{i,1},\ldots,R_{i,k}$  are the random inputs generated in that query. Note that  $|\sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}})| \leq S$  and  $\sigma_{i-1}$  is a (randomized-)function of the function table F. However, there must exist a deterministic function  $\mathcal{L}_i: \{0,1\}^N \to \{0,1\}^S$ , so that

Guess
$$(B_i \mid \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}), R_{i,1}, \dots, R_{i,k}) \leq \operatorname{Guess}(B_i \mid \mathcal{L}_i(F), R_{i,1}, \dots, R_{i,k})$$
.

Hence, to prove Lemma 4, it suffices to show the following lemma.

{20}------------------------------------------------

**Lemma 5.** Let  $\mathcal{L}: \{0,1\}^N \to \{0,1\}^S$  be any function. Then, for  $F \xleftarrow{\$} \{0,1\}^N$ , and  $R_1, \ldots, R_k \xleftarrow{\$} [N]$ ,

<span id="page-20-0"></span>Guess
$$(F[R_1] \oplus \cdots \oplus F[R_k] \mid \mathcal{L}(F), R_1, \dots, R_k) \leq 2 \cdot \left(\frac{4(S+nk)}{N}\right)^{k/2}$$
. (14)

Assuming Lemma 5, we can derive that

$$\begin{aligned} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) &= \sum_{i=0}^{q} \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}_{i}] - \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{H}_{i-1}] \leqslant \sum_{i=1}^{q} \mathsf{Guess}(B_{i} \mid \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}), R_{i,1}, \dots, R_{i,k})) \\ &\leqslant \sum_{i=1}^{q} \mathsf{Guess}(B_{i} \mid \mathcal{L}_{i}(F), R_{i,1}, \dots, R_{i,k}) \leqslant 2q \cdot \left(\frac{4(S+nk)}{N}\right)^{k/2} \,, \end{aligned}$$

which concludes the proof of Lemma 4.

CONNECTION TO LIST-DECODABILITY OF k-XOR CODE. Lemma 5 is the technical core of our result. Before we go into the details of the proof, we need to recall the definition of list-decoding. Consider the code k-XOR :  $\{0,1\}^N \to \{0,1\}^{N^k}$ , which is defined by

$$\mathsf{k}\text{-}\mathsf{XOR}(x)[I] = x[I_1] \oplus \cdots \oplus x[I_k]$$

for any  $I = (I_1, \ldots, I_k) \in [N]^k$ . We say that k-XOR:  $\{0,1\}^N \to \{0,1\}^{N^k}$  is  $(\varepsilon, L)$ -list-decodable if for any  $z \in \{0,1\}^{N^k}$ , there exists at most L codewords within a Hamming ball of radius  $\varepsilon N^k$  around z. The proof of Lemma 5 consists of two steps. First, we translate the left-hand side of (14) in terms of list-decoding properties of k-XOR code. Second, we apply a new list-decoding bound for k-XOR code to obtain (14). We show in Appendix D that if one applies prior list-decoding bound ([36]) at step two, then one can guarantee security for  $q = (N/S)^{k/4}$  instead of  $(N/S)^{k/2}$ . We now give some intuition on how Guess relates to list-decoding. First, we fix some deterministic guessing strategy g for  $F[R_1] \oplus \cdots \oplus F[R_k]$  given leakage  $\mathcal{L}(F)$  and indices  $R_1, \ldots, R_k$ , which is a function of the form  $g: \{0,1\}^S \times [N]^k \to \{0,1\}$  (looking ahead, g shall be fixed to be the "best" one). Note that g can be interpreted as  $2^S$  elements of  $\{0,1\}^{N^k}$ . In particular, let  $g': \{0,1\}^S \to \{0,1\}^{N^k}$  be the function defined to be

$$g'(x) = g(x, (0, ..., 0)) \| \cdots \| g(x, (1, ..., 1))$$

We let G be the set  $\{g'(0^S), g'(0^{S-1}1), \ldots, g'(1^S)\}$ . Our set G of  $2^S$  guesses lie in the co-domain of the k-XOR code. We now consider a partition of the  $\{0,1\}^N$  into sets **Good** and **Bad**, where

$$\begin{aligned} \mathbf{Good} &= \left\{ F \in \{0,1\}^N \mid \nexists z \in G : \mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k-XOR}(F),z) \leqslant \left(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2\right) N^k \right\} \;, \\ \mathbf{Bad} &= \left\{ F \in \{0,1\}^N \mid \exists z \in G : \mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k-XOR}(F),z) \leqslant \left(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2\right) N^k \right\} \;. \end{aligned}$$

Note that conditioned on  $F \in \mathbf{Good}$ , then the guessing strategy g should not achieve advantage better than  $\varepsilon$ . Using Lemma 6 given below, whose proof shall be given in Section 4.1, we can upper-bound the total number of codewords in  $\mathbf{Bad}$ , as a function of  $\varepsilon$ .

<span id="page-20-1"></span>**Lemma 6.** The k-XOR code is  $(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2, 2^{N - \varepsilon^{2/k}N/4})$ -list decodable, i.e. for any  $z \in \{0, 1\}^{N^k}$ , there are at most  $2^{N - \varepsilon^{2/k}N/4}$  codewords that are within hamming distance  $(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2)N^k$  of z.

{21}------------------------------------------------

Finally, obtaining the right-hand size of (14) amounts to picking an  $\varepsilon$  to minimize  $\Pr[F \in \mathbf{Bad}] + \varepsilon$ . We proceed to the proof, which formalizes the above intuition.

*Proof* (of Lemma 5). Consider the code k-XOR:  $\{0,1\}^N \to \{0,1\}^{N^k}$  defined by

$$\mathsf{k}\text{-}\mathsf{XOR}(x)[I] = x[I_1] \oplus \cdots \oplus x[I_k]$$

for any  $I \in [N]^k$ . For notational convenience, let  $B = F[R_1] \oplus \cdots \oplus F[R_k]$  and  $Z = \mathcal{L}(F)$ . Consider the following function  $Q : \{0,1\}^S \times [N]^k \to [-1,1]$ ,

$$Q(z,I) = 2 \cdot \Pr[B = 1 \mid \mathcal{L}(F) = z, (R_1, \dots, R_k) = I] - 1, \qquad (15)$$

where the probability is taken over F. By definition of Guess,

$$Guess(B \mid \mathcal{L}(F), R_1, \dots, R_k) = \mathbf{E}[|Q(Z, I)|], \qquad (16)$$

where  $Z = \mathcal{L}(F)$  and  $I \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} [N]^k$ . Now, we would like to describe the best guessing strategy  $g_z[I]$  for bit B given  $\mathcal{L}(F) = z$  and indices I. For each  $z \in \{0,1\}^S$ , we define  $g_z \in \{0,1\}^{N^k}$  as follows. For each  $I \in [N]^k$  we let  $g_z[I] = 1$  if  $Q(z,I) \ge 0$  and set  $g_z[I] = 0$  otherwise. Intuitively,  $g_z[I]$  encodes the best guess for  $B = F[I_1] \oplus \cdots F[I_k]$  given that  $\mathcal{L}(F) = z$ . Hence, for any z and I

$$\frac{1 - |Q(z, I)|}{2} = \Pr\left[B \neq g_{z, I} \mid \mathcal{L}(F) = z, (R_1, \dots, R_k) = I\right] . \tag{17}$$

Taking expectation of both sides over  $I \leftarrow [N]^k$ .

$$\frac{1 - \mathbf{E}[|Q(z,I)|]}{2} = \Pr[B \neq g_{z,I} \mid \mathcal{L}(F) = z] = \frac{\mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k-XOR}(F) \oplus g_z)}{N^k}, \tag{18}$$

where, recall,  $hw(\cdot)$  denotes the hamming weight (number of 1's) of a given string. With slight abuse of notation, we define Q(z) to be

$$Q(z) = \mathbf{E}_{I \leftarrow [N]^k} [|Q(z,I)|] = 1 - 2 \cdot \frac{\mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k-XOR}(F) \oplus g_z)}{N^k} \ . \tag{19}$$

Q(z) encodes the best possible guessing advantage when  $\mathcal{L}(F)=z$ , i.e.

Guess
$$(B \mid \mathcal{L}(F), R_1, \dots, R_k) = \mathbf{E}[Q(Z)]$$
.

Define E to be the event that  $\mathsf{k}\text{-}\mathsf{XOR}(F)$  is of distance more than  $(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2)N^k$  from  $g_{\mathcal{L}(F)}$  for some  $\varepsilon$  to be determined later. Note that given E, then

$$\mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k}\text{-}\mathsf{XOR}(F) \oplus g_{\mathcal{L}(F)}) \geqslant \left(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2\right) N^k$$

which means that and  $Q(\mathcal{L}(F)) \leq \varepsilon$ . Hence,

$$\mathbf{E}[Q(Z)] = \Pr[E] \cdot \mathbf{E}[Q(Z) \mid E] + \Pr[\neg E] \cdot \mathbf{E}[Q(Z) \mid \neg E]$$
(20)

$$\leq \varepsilon + \Pr\left[\mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k-XOR}(F) \oplus g_{\mathcal{L}(F)}) \leq \left(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2\right) N^k\right]$$
 (21)

{22}------------------------------------------------

$$\begin{array}{|c|c|c|} \hline & Game \ G_b \\ \hline K & & F.Ks \\ \hline F & & Fcs(F.Dom, F.Rng) \\ \hline b' & & & A_{indr}^{ENC} \\ \hline Return \ b' & & & \\ \hline ENC(M) \\ \hline For \ i = 1, \ldots, k \ do \ R_i & & \{0,1\}^n \\ \hline Y_0 & \leftarrow F(R_1) \oplus \cdots \oplus F(R_k) \\ \hline Y_1 & \leftarrow F(K, R_1) \oplus \cdots \oplus F(K, R_k) \\ \hline Return \ (R_1, \ldots, R_k, Y_b \oplus M) \\ \hline \end{array}$$

```
Adversary \mathcal{A}_i^{\text{Enc}}
 Game H_i
\begin{aligned} F &\xleftarrow{\$} \mathsf{Fcs}(\mathsf{F}.\mathsf{Dom},\mathsf{F}.\mathsf{Rng}) \\ b' &\leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathtt{EnC}_i}_{\mathsf{indr}} \\ \mathsf{Return} \ b' &= 1 \end{aligned}
                                                                                                                F_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathsf{Fcs}(\mathsf{F.Dom}, \{0, 1\}^{m-i})
                                                                                                                b' \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}^{\mathsf{SIMENC}_i}
                                                                                                                Return b'
\mathrm{Enc}_i(M)
                                                                                                                SIMENC_i(M)
For i = 1, ..., k do R_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^n
                                                                                                                For i = 1, ..., k do R_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^n
Y_0 \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^m
                                                                                                                Z_0 \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^{i-1} \oplus M[1\dots(i-1)]
Y_1 \leftarrow F(R_1) \oplus \cdots \oplus F(R_k)
                                                                                                                Z_1 \leftarrow F_i(R_1) \oplus \cdots \oplus F_i(R_k) \oplus M[(i+1) \dots m]
Y \leftarrow Y_0[1 \dots i] || Y_1[(i+1) \dots m]
                                                                                                                Z \leftarrow Z_0 \| \text{Enc}(M[i]) \| Z_1
Return (R_1, \ldots, R_k, Y \oplus M)
                                                                                                                Return (R_1, \ldots, R_k, Z)
```

<span id="page-22-0"></span>Fig. 5. Games and adversaries used in the proof of Theorem 3.

$$\leq \varepsilon + \Pr\left[\exists s \in \{0,1\}^S : \mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k-XOR}(F) \oplus g_s) \leq \left(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2\right) N^k\right]$$
 (22)

$$\leq \varepsilon + \sum_{s \in \{0,1\}^S} \Pr\left[\mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k-XOR}(F) \oplus g_s) \leq \left(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2\right) N^k\right]$$
 (23)

$$\leqslant \varepsilon + 2^S \cdot 2^{-\varepsilon^{2/k}N/4} \,, \tag{24}$$

where the last equation is by the  $((\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon), 2^{-\varepsilon^{2/k}N/4})$ -list decodability of k-XOR-code (Lemma 6). We now set

$$\varepsilon = \sqrt{\left(\frac{4(S+nk)}{N}\right)^k} \;,$$

which makes it so that  $\mathbf{E}[Q(f(X))] \leq \varepsilon + 2^{-nk} \leq 2 \cdot \varepsilon$ . Hence,

$$Guess(Y \mid f(X), R_1, \dots, R_k) \leq 2 \cdot \left(\frac{4(S + nk)}{N}\right)^{k/2}.$$
(25)

This justifies Lemma 5.

*Proof* (of Theorem 3). First, consider the games  $G_0, G_1$  and  $H_0, \ldots, H_m$  given in Figure 5. Notice that

$$Adv_{SE}^{indr}(\mathcal{A}_{indr}) = Pr[G_1] - Pr[H_m]. \qquad (26)$$

<span id="page-22-1"></span>

{23}------------------------------------------------

By construction,  $G_0$  and  $H_0$  behave identically. Thus,

$$\Pr[\mathsf{H}_0] = \Pr[\mathsf{G}_0] . \tag{27}$$

Consider adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}$  given on the top right of Figure 5,

$$Adv_{F}^{prf}(\mathcal{A}_{prf}) = Pr[G_{1}] - Pr[G_{0}]. \qquad (28)$$

Consider adversary  $A_i$  given on the top right of Figure 5, for i = 1, ..., m. We have,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{Xor}[\mathsf{RF}_{n,1},k]}(\mathcal{A}_i) = \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{H}_{i-1}\right] - \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{H}_i\right] \ . \tag{29}$$

Putting things together,

$$\mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{SE}}^{\mathsf{indr}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) = \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_{1}\right] - \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{H}_{m}\right] \tag{30}$$

$$= (\Pr[\mathsf{G}_1] - \Pr[\mathsf{G}_0]) + (\Pr[\mathsf{G}_0] - \Pr[\mathsf{H}_m]) \tag{31}$$

$$= (\Pr[\mathsf{G}_1] - \Pr[\mathsf{G}_0]) + (\Pr[\mathsf{H}_0] - \Pr[\mathsf{H}_m])$$
(32)

$$= (\Pr[\mathsf{G}_1] - \Pr[\mathsf{G}_0]) + \sum_{i=1}^{m} (\Pr[\mathsf{H}_{i-1}] - \Pr[\mathsf{H}_i])$$
(33)

$$= \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) + \sum_{i=1}^{m} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{Xor}[\mathsf{RF}_{n,1},k]}(\mathcal{A}_{i}) \ . \tag{34}$$

Note that in the specification of  $A_i$ , the function  $F_i$  needs to be stored in memory. However, there always exists a fixing of  $F_i$  such that  $A_i$  achieves no smaller advantage than a randomly sampled  $F_i$ . Note that with  $F_i$  fixed,  $A_i$  is S-bounded. Hence, by Lemma 4,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{Xor}[\mathsf{RF}_{n,1},k]}(\mathcal{A}_i) \leqslant \sqrt{q \cdot \left(\frac{4(S+nk)}{2^n}\right)^k} \; .$$

<span id="page-23-0"></span>4.1 List Decodability of k-XOR Codes

We relied on the list-decodability of k-XOR code in the proof of Lemma 5. Recall that k-XOR :  $\{0,1\}^N \to \{0,1\}^{N^k}$  is  $(\varepsilon,L)$ -list-decodable if for any  $z \in \{0,1\}^{N^k}$ , there exists at most L codewords within a Hamming ball of radius  $\varepsilon N^k$  around z. The list-decoding property of XOR-code has been studied extensively in complexity theory in the context of hardness amplification. The connection between Yao's XOR Lemma (for a good survey, see [31]) and the list-decodability of XOR-code was first observed by Trevisan [45]. So proofs of hardness amplification results (e.g. [40,34]) using XOR in fact yields algorithmic list-decoding bounds for xor-codes. More recently, [36] has also given approximate list-decoding bounds for k-XOR. We discuss in Appendix D how the approximate list-decoding bound by [36] can be viewed as (non-approximate) list-decoding bound which lead to an inferior result for the k-XOR construction that promise security upto  $q = (N/S)^{k/4}$  instead of  $q = (N/S)^{k/2}$ . Where as previous works on list-decoding of k-XOR-code focus on algorithmic list-decoding, we are interested in the setting of combinatorial list-decoding, and the best trade-off possible between error  $\varepsilon$  (especially when it is very close to 1/2) and the list size L.

<span id="page-23-1"></span>Before we begin, we first show the following moment bound on sum of  $\{-1,1\}$ -valued random variables.

{24}------------------------------------------------

**Lemma 7.** Let  $F_1, \ldots, F_N$  be i.i.d random variables with  $F_i \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{-1, 1\}$ . Then, for any even  $m \in \mathbb{N}$ 

$$\mathbf{E}\left[\left(\sum_{i\in[N]}F_i\right)^m\right] \leqslant (mN)^{m/2} \ . \tag{35}$$

*Proof.* Let us first expand the expectation.

$$\mathbf{E}\left[\left(\sum_{i\in[N]}F_i\right)^m\right] = \sum_{I\in[N]^m}\mathbf{E}\left[\prod_{i\in I}F_i\right].$$

We claim that the inside expectation,  $\mathbf{E} [\prod_{i \in I} F_i]$ , is either 0 or 1 depending on I. In particular, define I to be even if for every  $i \in [N]$ , the number of i contained in I is even. First, for any  $i \in [N]$ , since  $F_i$  takes value in  $\{-1,1\}$ , it holds that  $F_i \cdot F_i = 1$ . Hence, observe that  $\mathbf{E} [\prod_{i \in I} F_i]$  is 1 if I is even. Otherwise, if I is not even, we claim that expectation is 0. To see this, suppose  $i_0$  appears an odd number of times in the vector I. We can expand the expectation by conditioning on the value of  $F_{i_0}$  being 1 or -1:

$$\mathbf{E}\left[\prod_{i\in I}F_i\right] = \mathbf{E}\left[F_{i_0}\cdot\prod_{i\neq i_0}F_i\right] = \mathbf{E}\left[\prod_{i\neq i_0}F_i\right] - \mathbf{E}\left[\prod_{i\neq i_0}F_i\right] = 0.$$

Therefore,

$$\mathbf{E}\left[\left(\sum_{i\in[N]}F_i\right)^m\right] \leqslant |\{I\in[N]^m \mid I \text{ is even }\}|.$$

For an upper bound of number of even I's, consider the following way of generating even I's. First, we pick a perfect matching (recall that a perfect matching on the complete graph on m vertices is a subset of m/2-edges that uses all m vertices) on the complete graph of m-vertices,  $K_m$ . Then, for each edge,  $e = (v_0, v_1)$ , in the matching, we assign a value  $i \in [N]$  to nodes  $v_0$  and  $v_1$ , i.e.  $\ell(v_0) = \ell(v_1) = i$ . Now, reading the labels off of each node (wlog we can assume the set of nodes is [m]), we obtain an  $I = (\ell(0), \ldots, \ell(m-1)) \in [N]^m$  that is even. Note that any even I can be generated in such a way, since given any even I it is easy to find a perfect matching and labeling that results in I.

We move on to compute the number of ways the above can be done. Note that the number of perfect matching is  $(m-1) \times (m-3) \times \cdots \times 1$ . To see this, let us fix an order of vertices [m], say  $1, \ldots, m$ . At each step, we shall assign an edge to the smallest vertex that does not yet have an edge. Note that at the *i*-th step (with *i* starting at 0), there are exactly (m-2i-1) ways to pick the next edge. Hence, the number of perfect matchings on  $K_m$  is bounded above by

$$\frac{m!}{2^{m/2}(m/2)!} = \frac{\binom{m}{m/2}}{2^{m/2}} \cdot (m/2)! \leqslant \frac{2^m}{2^{m/2}} \cdot (m/2)^{m/2} \leqslant m^{m/2}$$

Next, for each perfect matching, there are  $N^{m/2}$  ways of assigning values to edges, since each one of the m/2 edges can be assigned any of the N-values. Hence,

$$\mathbf{E}\left[\left(\sum_{i\in[N]}F_i\right)^m\right]\leqslant (m)^{m/2}\cdot N^{m/2}=(mN)^{m/2}.$$

{25}------------------------------------------------

Equipped with Lemma 7, we proceed to prove Lemma 6.

Proof (of Lemma 6). We identify the sets  $[N^k]$  with  $[N]^k$ . Fix some  $z \in \{0,1\}^{N^k}$ . Let  $Z = (Z_1, \ldots, Z_{N^k})$  be the  $N^k$ -vector such that  $Z_I = (-1)^{z_I}$  for any  $I \in [N]^k$ . Let  $F_1, \ldots, F_n \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{-1,1\}$ . For each  $I \in [N]^k$ , we define random variable  $B_I = \prod_{i \in I} F_i$ . Note that if we map  $B_I$  to  $\{0,1\}$ , i.e. define  $b_I$  such that  $B_I = (-1)^{b_I}$ , then  $(b_1, \ldots, b_{N^k})$  is just a uniformly random codeword in  $\{0,1\}^{N^k}$ . We have now that for any  $I \in [N^k]$ ,  $(-1)^{b_I \oplus z_I} = Z_I \cdot B_I$ . Fix some codeword  $(b_1, \ldots, b_{N^k}) \in \{0,1\}^{N^k}$ . The hamming distance between it and z is the hamming weight of  $s = (b_I \oplus z_I)_{I \in [N]^k}$ . Now, note that  $\mathsf{hw}(s) \leq (1/2 - \varepsilon/2)N^k$  if and only if  $\sum_I (-1)^{s_I} \geqslant \varepsilon N^k$ . Hence, to show that there are at most  $2^{N-\varepsilon^{2/k}N/4}$  codewords within radius  $(1/2 - \varepsilon/2)N^k$  of z, it suffices to show the following bound,

$$\Pr\left[\sum_{I\in[N]^k} Z_I \cdot B_I \geqslant \varepsilon N^k\right] \leqslant 2^{-\varepsilon^{2/k}N/4} . \tag{36}$$

Let us compute the p-th moment of  $\sum_{I \in [N]^k} Z_I \cdot B_I$  for some even p (we shall fix the particular value of p later).

$$\mathbf{E}\left[\left(\sum_{I\in[N]^k} Z_I \cdot B_I\right)^p\right] = \mathbf{E}\left[\sum_{I_1,\dots,I_p} Z_{I_1} \cdots Z_{I_p} B_{I_1} \cdots B_{I_p}\right]$$
(37)

$$= \sum_{I_1,\dots,I_p} (Z_{I_1} \cdots Z_{I_p}) \mathbf{E} \left[ B_{I_1} \cdots B_{I_p} \right]$$
(38)

<span id="page-25-0"></span>
$$\leq \sum_{I_1,\dots,I_p} \mathbf{E} \left[ B_{I_1} \cdots B_{I_p} \right] \tag{39}$$

$$= \mathbf{E} \left[ \left( \sum_{I \in [N]^k} B_I \right)^p \right] \tag{40}$$

$$= \mathbf{E} \left[ \left( \sum_{i \in [N]} F_i \right)^{k \cdot p} \right] \tag{41}$$

<span id="page-25-1"></span>
$$\leqslant (kpN)^{kp/2} \,, \tag{42}$$

where (39) is because  $\mathbf{E}[B_{I_1}\cdots B_{I_p}]\in\{0,1\}$  and  $Z_{I_1}\cdots Z_{I_p}\in\{-1,1\}$ . To see the former claim, compute that

$$\mathbf{E}\left[B_{I_1}\cdots B_{I_p}\right] = \mathbf{E}\left[\prod_{j\in[p]}\prod_{i\in I_j}F_i\right] = \sum_{i\in[N]}\mathbf{E}\left[F_i^{k_i}\right],$$

for some  $k_1, \ldots, k_N$ . Note that  $\mathbf{E}\left[F_i^k\right] = 1$  for any even power k, and  $\mathbf{E}\left[F_i^k\right] = 0$  for any odd power k. We note that after (39), the expression is *independent* of Z. This is the crucial fact that we rely on when computing the moments of  $\sum_{I \in [N]^k} Z_I \cdot B_I$ . Applying Markov's inequality to the p-th moment of  $\sum_{I \in [N]^k} Z_I \cdot B_I$  and using (42) as well as Lemma 7, we get

<span id="page-25-2"></span>
$$\Pr\left[\sum_{I\in[N]^k} Z_I \cdot B_I \geqslant \varepsilon N^k\right] \leqslant \frac{(kpN)^{kp/2}}{\varepsilon^p N^{kp}} \leqslant \left(\frac{kp}{\varepsilon^{2/k}N}\right)^{kp/2}. \tag{43}$$

{26}------------------------------------------------

Now, we would be done if we could set p so that  $\frac{kp}{\varepsilon^{2/k}N} = \frac{1}{2}$ . We cannot do so directly since it only makes sense when p is an even integer. However, we can set  $p = p_0$  to be the smallest even integer such that  $2kp_0 \ge \varepsilon^{2/k}N$ . In other words, we set  $p = p_0 = 2 \cdot \left\lceil \frac{\varepsilon^{2/k}N}{4k} \right\rceil$ . Note that the right hand side of (43) is minimized when  $\frac{kp}{\varepsilon^{2/k}N} = \frac{1}{e}$  and increases as p deviates from this value. Hence, to derive the final bound, as long as  $\frac{kp_0}{\varepsilon^{2/k}N} \ge \frac{1}{e}$  (which is easily checked), we can plug  $p = p_1 = (\varepsilon^{2/k}N)/2k$  into the right-hand side of (43) to derive the final bound of  $2^{-\varepsilon^{2/k}N/4}$ .

### <span id="page-26-1"></span>4.2 Instantiation with PRP

Theorem 3 tells us that in order to guarantee security for k-XOR using for q > N, we will need a PRF that is secure for up to  $q \cdot k$  queries. Clearly, a block cipher like AES would fail to achieve this, as it only implements a good PRP. However, for the case where  $S \leq N^{1-\alpha}$  for some constant  $\alpha > 0$ , we show in this section how to build a suitable PRF from a PRP F, using existing results. Our approach relies on the construction

$$\mathsf{F}^d(K_1 \dots K_d, M) = \mathsf{F}(K_1, M) \oplus \dots \oplus \mathsf{F}(K_d, M) , \qquad (44)$$

for an even d. (The crucial difference between this construction and our k-XOR encryption scheme is that the former queries F at the same input M but across different keys  $K_1, \ldots, K_d$ , whereas the k-XOR encryption scheme queries F at different points  $R_1, \ldots, R_k$  fixing the same key.) Dai, Hoang, and Tessaro [16] proved that for all adversaries  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  making q distinct queries and with time and memory complexities t and S, respectively, there exists an adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{prp}$  with similar complexities such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{F}^d}^{\mathsf{prf}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) \leqslant 2^{d/2-1} \cdot \left(\frac{q}{N}\right)^{3d/4} + d \cdot \mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{F}}^{\mathsf{prp}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prp}}) \ . \tag{45}$$

Now, let us build  $\overline{\mathsf{F}}^d$  from  $\mathsf{F}^d$  by restricting the input domain. In particular, we let  $\overline{\mathsf{F}}^d$ . Dom =  $\{0,1\}^{n(1-\alpha/2)}$  and

$$\overline{\mathsf{F}}^d(K_1 \dots K_d, M) = \mathsf{F}^d(K_1 \dots K_d, M \parallel 0^{n\alpha/2}) ,$$

for  $M \in \{0,1\}^{n-\alpha/2}$ . Since the domain of  $\overline{\mathsf{F}}^d$  is a subset of the domain of  $\mathsf{F}^d$ , for any PRF-adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}$  with running time t, memory S, that makes q queries, there exists a PRP-adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prp}}$  with similar complexity such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prf}}_{\mathsf{F}^d}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) \leqslant 2^{d/2-1} \cdot N^{-3\alpha d/4} + d \cdot \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prp}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prp}}) \ . \tag{46}$$

Now, assume F secure against adversaries that make q queries with running time t where t > q > N. To guarantee that  $\overline{\mathsf{F}}^d$  is good PRF for adversaries of similar complexity, we just need to set d so that the term  $2^{d/2-1} \cdot N^{-3\alpha d/4}$  is small enough. Next, we can apply Theorem 3 with  $S = N^{1-\alpha}$  and replacing N with  $N^{1-\alpha/2}$ . This allows us to achieve  $q = N^{\beta}$  security with  $k = 4\beta/\alpha$ , for constant  $\beta > 0$ . The resulting construction makes  $4d\beta/\alpha$  calls to a block cipher F, assumed to be a PRP.

### <span id="page-26-0"></span>4.3 Attacks on the k-XOR Construction

In this section, we investigate the trade-off between S and q for k-XOR from an attack perspective. For the rest of the section, we fix  $SE = Xor[RF_{n,m}, k]$  for some even k. For any fixed S, our goal is to

{27}------------------------------------------------

construct an attack that achieves constant INDR advantage (say at least  $\frac{1}{4}$ ) against SE using queries that is roughly  $q = O(\binom{N}{S}^k)$ . Note that our positive result gives security up to  $q = O(\binom{N}{S}^{k/2})$ . We also present an attack to show that the bound is tight for small S and leave the question of tightness open the regime where q is between (roughly)  $(N/S)^{k/2}$  and  $(N/S)^k$  for any larger S. SMALL-MEMORY ATTACK. We present an attack that requires only  $S = O(k \log N)$  and  $q = O(N^{k/2})$  to obtain constant distinguishing advantage. Here, the adversary needs only the amount of memory that can store a single query. It keeps invoking  $\text{Enc}(0^m)$  and obtaining  $(R_1, ..., R_k, C)$  until for all  $1 \le j \le k/2$ ,  $R_{2j-1} = R_{2j}$ . As all pairs of probes collide, in the real world the xor mask would be canceled into all zeros and the adversary outputs b = 1 (real) if  $C = 0^m$ , otherwise it outputs b = 0 (ideal). Note that each probe in  $(R_1, ..., R_k)$  are independently sampled from [N] uniformly, the probability that the all pairs  $(R_{2j-1}, R_{2j})$  collide for  $1 \le j \le k/2$  is exactly  $N^{-k/2}$ . Hence in expectation the adversary needs to wait for  $N^{k/2}$  queries and by Markov inequality, the adversary can wait for at most  $2N^{k/2} = O(N^{k/2})$  queries and output the correct prediction bit with constant advantage.

GENERAL ATTACK FOR ANY S. Consider the following attack: we keep obtaining encryptions,  $(R_1, \ldots, R_k, C_i)$  of message  $0^m$  but only stores them if  $R_1, \ldots, R_k$ , when interpreted as a number between 0 and N-1, satisfy that

$$\forall j \in [k] : R_j \in \{0, 1, \dots, S - 1\}$$
.

The attack waits until memory contains at least S such ciphertexts. We claim that now we can compute as a function of the memory, a very good guess for challenge bit b. More precisely, consider the INDR adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{S,q}$  given below, and consider the game  $\mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},d}(\mathcal{A}_{S,q})$  for d=0 and d=1.

```
Adversary \mathcal{A}_{S,q}^{\operatorname{Enc}}
Repeat q times or until |M| \geqslant S:
(R_1, \dots, R_k, C) \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \operatorname{Enc}(0^m)
If (\forall j \in [k] : R_j \in \{0, 1, \dots, S - 1\}) then
M \leftarrow M \cup \{((R_1, \dots, R_k), C)\}
// \operatorname{view}(R_1, \dots, R_k) \text{ as vector in } \{0, 1\}^N \text{ of weight at most } k
If |M| < S then return b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}
\{(v_i, C_i)\}_{i \in [S]} \leftarrow M \text{ // relabel ciphertext in memory}
Let I be such that \sum_{i \in I} v_i = \mathbf{0}
Return (\sum_{i \in I} C_i) = 0^m
```

Above, we view  $(R_1, \ldots, R_k)$  as a vector with weight at most k in  $\{0,1\}^N$ , and we view  $((R_1, \ldots, R_k), C)$  as a vector in  $\{0,1\}^N \times \{0,1\}^m$ . The attack, in the second phase, first finds a linear combination (which is just a set I) of  $(R_1, \ldots, R_k)$  that sum to the zero-vector. This always exist if  $|M| \ge S$ . The reasoning for this is as follows. Suppose there are S ciphertexts

$$(R_{i,1},\ldots,R_{i,k},C_i),$$

for  $i \in [S]$ . Then, the vectors  $\{(R_{i,1}, \ldots, R_{i,k})\}_{i \in [S]}$  must be linearly dependent regardless of the bit b. This is because the vectors  $(R_{i,1}, \ldots, R_{i,k})$  are all within a subspace of dimension S. Furthermore, they cannot span the entire subspace since no combinations of them can form a vector with odd number of 1's (since k is even). Now, note that

$$\left(\sum_{i\in I} C_i\right) = 0^m$$

{28}------------------------------------------------

holds with probability 1 and  $2^{-m}$  when b=1 (real) and b=0 (ideal), respectively.

<span id="page-28-0"></span>**Proposition 2.** Suppose  $k < S \leq N$ . Then, for

$$q = 2 \cdot \frac{N^k}{S^{k-1}} \;,$$

we have

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE}}(\mathcal{A}_{S,q}) \geqslant \frac{1}{2} - \frac{1}{2^{m+1}} \geqslant \frac{1}{4} \; ,$$

where  $A_{S,q}$  is  $((k \cdot n + m) \cdot S)$ -bounded and makes q queries to Enc.

Proof (of Proposition 2). Consider games  $G_0 = \mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},0}(\mathcal{A}_{S,q})$  and  $G_1 = \mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},1}(\mathcal{A}_{S,q})$ . Consider events  $E_0$  and  $E_1$ , both defined to be  $|M| \geq S$ , in games  $\mathsf{G}_0$  and  $\mathsf{G}_1$  respectively. Since both games sample value of  $(R_1, \ldots, R_k)$  in the same way, we have

$$\Pr\left[E_{0}\right] = \Pr\left[E_{1}\right] . \tag{47}$$

We first attempt to express the advantage in terms of this probability. Note that adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  always return a randomly sampled bit b given  $\neg E$ , hence

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_0 \mid \neg E_0\right] = \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_1 \mid \neg E_0\right] . \tag{48}$$

By previous analysis, we have that

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_0 \mid E_0\right] = 2^{-m} \,\,\,\,(49)$$

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_1 \mid E_1\right] = 1 \ . \tag{50}$$

Putting these together, we have

$$\begin{aligned} \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_{1}\right] &= \Pr\left[E_{1}\right] \cdot \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_{1} \mid E_{1}\right] + \Pr\left[\neg E_{1}\right] \cdot \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_{1} \mid \neg E_{1}\right] \\ &= \Pr\left[E_{1}\right] + \left(1 - \Pr\left[E_{1}\right]\right) \cdot \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_{1} \mid \neg E_{1}\right] \;, \end{aligned}$$

and

$$\Pr[\mathsf{G}_0] = \Pr[E_0] \cdot \Pr[\mathsf{G}_0 \mid E_0] + \Pr[\neg E_0] \cdot \Pr[\mathsf{G}_0 \mid \neg E_0]$$
$$= 2^{-m} \cdot \Pr[E_0] + (1 - \Pr[E_0]) \cdot \Pr[\mathsf{G}_1 \mid \neg E_1] .$$

Hence,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE}}(\mathcal{A}_{S,q}) = \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_{1}\right] - \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_{0}\right] = (1 - 2^{-m}) \cdot \mathsf{Pr}\left[E_{1}\right] \; .$$

It remains to show that  $\Pr[E_1] \ge \frac{1}{2}$ . Note that each ciphertext is added to memory with probability  $\left(\frac{S}{N}\right)^k$ . Consider the following process (which represent the expected number of ENC queries until memory is of size S if there is no upper bound on q): we keep sampling  $(R_1, \ldots, R_k)$  until there are S examples such that  $\forall j : R_j \in \{0, \ldots, S-1\}$ . Let T denote the number of steps required. Note that

$$\mathbf{E}[T] = S \cdot \frac{N^k}{S^k} = \frac{N^k}{S^{k-1}}.$$

Hence, by Markov,

$$\Pr[E_1] = 1 - \Pr[T > q] \geqslant 1 - \frac{\mathbf{E}[T]}{q} = 1 - \frac{N^k/S^{k-1}}{2 \cdot N^k/S^{k-1}} \geqslant \frac{1}{2}.$$

This concludes the analysis of the adversary.

{29}------------------------------------------------

Attack for  $S = O(N^{1/(k+1)})$ . Below we present an attack that achieves  $q = O(\left(\frac{N}{S}\right)^k)$ , but for a more restricted range of S.

Consider an attack that, again, keep asking for encryptions of message  $0^m$  in the first phase. This time, the attack only stores ciphertext  $(R_1, \ldots, R_k, C)$  such that

$$(R_1,\ldots,R_{k-1})=(1,2,\ldots,k-1)$$
.

The particular chosen value of (1, 2, ..., k-1) does not really matter for this attack. Note that now, every ciphertext that is stored in memory only differ in their  $R_k$  and  $C_i$  component, and we shall only store these values. We run this phase for  $q_0$  queries, or unless our memory contains at least S ciphertexts. In the second phase, the attack will attempt to find "collisions" between ciphertexts stored and the incoming queries. Note that for any k ciphertext in memory, say

$$(R_{1,k},C_1),\ldots,(R_{k,k},C_k)$$
.

The value of  $C_1 \oplus \cdots \oplus C_k$  is the value of  $\mathsf{RF}(R_{1,k}) \oplus \cdots \mathsf{RF}(R_{k,k})$  if we are interacting with the real construction. Hence, if the incoming ciphertext contains  $R_i$ 's that can be found within memory, then we have found a "collision." More specifically, consider INDR adversary  $\mathcal{B}$  as follows.

```
Adversary \mathcal{B}_{S,q_0,q_1}^{\operatorname{Enc}}

// Phase 1

Repeat q_0 times or until |M| \geq S:

(R_1,\ldots,R_k,C) \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \operatorname{Enc}(0^m)

If (R_1,\ldots,R_{k-1}) = (1,\ldots,k-1) then
M \leftarrow M \cup \{(R_k,C)\}

If |M| < S then return b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\} // Bad, return random guess \{(T_i,C_i)\}_{i\in[|M|]} \leftarrow M // Parse elements of M // Phase 2

Repeat q_1 times:

(R_1,\ldots,R_k,C) \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \operatorname{Enc}(0^m)

If (\exists I:\{R_1,\ldots,R_k\}=\{T_i\}_{i\in I}) then
Return (\sum_{i\in I}C_i=C)

Return b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\} // Bad, return random guess
```

Note that in phase 1, each ciphertext is added to memory with probability  $N^{-(k-1)}$ . In phase 2, each new ciphertext gives a "collision" with probability  $(S/N)^k$ . Hence, we shall set  $q_0$  and  $q_1$  to be roughly the expected number of steps we need in each phase, which amounts to  $q_0 = S \cdot N^{k-1}$  and  $q_1 = (N/S)^k$ . Now, if  $S \leq N^{1/(k+1)}$ , then  $q_0 \leq q_1$ .

<span id="page-29-0"></span>**Proposition 3.** Suppose  $k < S \leq N^{1/(k+1)}$ . Then, for

$$q = 2 \cdot \frac{N^k}{S^k} \;,$$

we have

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE}}(\mathcal{B}_{S,q,q}) \geqslant \frac{1}{4} \cdot (1 - 2^{-m}) \geqslant \frac{1}{8}$$

where  $\mathcal{B}_{S,q,q}$  is  $((n+m)\cdot S)$ -bounded and makes 2q queries to Enc.

{30}------------------------------------------------

Proof (of Proposition 3). Consider games  $G_0 = \mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},0}(\mathcal{B}_{S,q_0,q_1})$  and  $\mathsf{G}_1 = \mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},1}(\mathcal{B}_{S,q_0,q_1})$ . Let  $\mathsf{bad}_i$  be the event that  $\mathcal{B}$  returns a random guess  $b \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}$  in game  $\mathsf{G}_i$  for i=0,1. Note that event  $\mathsf{bad}_i$  only depend on the variables  $(R_1,\ldots,R_k)$  in the output of ENC, which are identically distributed in games  $\mathsf{G}_0$  and  $\mathsf{G}_1$ . Hence,

$$Pr[bad_0] = Pr[bad_1] \tag{51}$$

Since if  $bad_0$  or  $bad_1$  then the adversary always return a randomly sampled bit b,

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_0 \mid \mathsf{bad}_0\right] = \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_1 \mid \mathsf{bad}_0\right] = \frac{1}{2} \ . \tag{52}$$

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_0 \mid \neg\mathsf{bad}_0\right] = 2^{-m} \ . \tag{53}$$

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_1 \mid \neg\mathsf{bad}_1\right] = 1 \ . \tag{54}$$

Hence,

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_{0}\right] &= \mathsf{Pr}\left[\neg\mathsf{bad}_{0}\right] \cdot \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_{1} \mid \mathsf{bad}_{0}\right] + \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{bad}_{0}\right] \cdot \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_{0} \mid \mathsf{bad}_{0}\right] \\ &= \mathsf{Pr}\left[\neg\mathsf{bad}_{0}\right] + \left(\mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{bad}_{0}\right]\right) \cdot \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_{0} \mid \mathsf{bad}_{0}\right] \;, \end{split}$$

$$\begin{split} \Pr[\mathsf{G}_1] &= \Pr\left[\neg\mathsf{bad}_1\right] \cdot \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_1 \mid \mathsf{bad}_1\right] + \Pr\left[\mathsf{bad}_1\right] \cdot \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_1 \mid \mathsf{bad}_1\right] \\ &= 2^{-m} \cdot \Pr\left[\neg\mathsf{bad}_1\right] + \left(\Pr\left[\mathsf{bad}_1\right]\right) \cdot \Pr\left[\mathsf{G}_1 \mid \mathsf{bad}_1\right] \;, \end{split}$$

and

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE}}(\mathcal{B}_{S,q_0,q_1}) = \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_1\right] - \mathsf{Pr}\left[\mathsf{G}_0\right] = (1-2^{-m}) \cdot \mathsf{Pr}\left[\neg\mathsf{bad}_0\right] \ .$$

It remains to show that  $\Pr[\mathsf{bad}_0] \leq \frac{1}{4}$ . First, we separate  $\mathsf{bad}_0$  into two events  $\mathsf{bad}_A$  and  $\mathsf{bad}_B$  so that  $\mathsf{bad}_0 = \mathsf{bad}_A \cup \mathsf{bad}_B$ , where  $\mathsf{bad}_A$  denotes the probability that, at the end of the first phase, |M| < S;  $\mathsf{bad}_B$  denotes the probability that the last return statement is executed.

Let us compute the expected number of steps in phase 1 and 2 if we do not restrict  $q_0$  and  $q_1$ . In particular, let  $T_0$  be the random variable denoting the number of steps until memory is of size S, and let  $T_1$  be the random variable denoting the number of vectors  $(R_1, \ldots, R_k)$  we sample until one of them satisfy the condition  $\exists I : \{R_1, \ldots, R_k\} = \{T_i\}_{i \in I}$ . We have that  $\mathbf{E}[T_0] = S \cdot N^{k-1}$  and  $\mathbf{E}[T_1] = (N/S)^k$ . Note that since  $S \leq N^{1/(k+1)}$ , it must be  $S \cdot N^{k-1} \leq (N/S)^k$ . Hence, we have set q so that  $q \geq 2 \cdot \mathbf{E}[T_1] \geq 2 \cdot \mathbf{E}[T_0]$ , which means that by Markov,

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{bad}_A\right]\leqslant \frac{1}{2}\;,$$

$$\Pr\left[\mathsf{bad}_B \mid \neg\mathsf{bad}_A\right] \leqslant \frac{1}{2}$$
,

and

$$\begin{split} \Pr \left[ \mathsf{bad}_A \vee \mathsf{bad}_B \right] &= \Pr \left[ \mathsf{bad}_A \right] + \Pr \left[ \neg \mathsf{bad}_A \right] \cdot \Pr \left[ \mathsf{bad}_B \mid \neg \mathsf{bad}_A \right] \\ &= \Pr \left[ \mathsf{bad}_A \right] + \left( 1 - \Pr \left[ \mathsf{bad}_A \right] \right) \cdot \Pr \left[ \mathsf{bad}_B \mid \neg \mathsf{bad}_A \right] \\ &\leqslant \frac{3}{4} \; . \end{split}$$

Hence  $Pr[\neg bad_0] \ge 1/4$  and this concludes the analysis of the adversary.

{31}------------------------------------------------

ATTACK FOR k=2. Finally, we present an attack for k=2, which achieves constant success probability with  $q=O((N/S)^2)$  for any S upto  $O(\sqrt{N/n})$ . Interestingly, having k=2 allows us to model the collection of ciphertext as a graph on N vertices, where ciphertext  $(R_1, R_2, D)$  is viewed as an edge,  $e=(R_1, R_2)$ , with label D. The strategy is as follows, the adversary keeps obtaining encryptions of message  $0^m$ , say C=(e,D) (with  $e=(R_1,R_2)$ ). Suppose the first ciphertext  $C_1$  is  $C_1=(e_1,D_1)$ , which is added to memory after it is obtained. Then, the adversary only adds ciphertext  $C_2=(e_2,D_2)$  if  $e_2$  is connected to  $e_1$ . More generally, suppose our graph contains the set of ciphertexts  $\{(e_i,D_i)\}_{i\in[j]}$ . Then, a new ciphertext  $(e^*,D^*)$  is only added if  $e^*$  is connected to G.

Our storage strategy above dictates that the graph stored is always connected. Note that at any time, if there is a cycle say,  $e_1, \ldots, e_j$ , where  $e_i$  has label  $D_i$ , we can check if  $\bigoplus_{i \in [j]} D_i = 0^m$  to succeed with high probability (note that this also works for self-loops). And, assuming that graph G contains j connected edges with no loops, then it must be a tree on (j+1) vertices. Hence, the probability that we obtain an ciphertext that connects to the graph stored is at least (j+1)/N. Hence, assuming we have found no loops, the expected number of ciphertexts we need to build a connected tree of size S is at most

$$\frac{N}{2} + \frac{N}{3} + \dots + \frac{N}{S} \leqslant N \cdot \log(S) .$$

When the graph contains S vertices, we expect to need  $(N/S)^2$  more ciphertext before we can find a cycle. Note that for  $(N/S)^2 \ge N \cdot \log(S)$  if  $S \le \sqrt{N/\log(N)}$ . Thus, the expected total number of ciphertext needed is at most  $2 \cdot (N/S)^2$ . The pseudocode for the attack is given below.

```
Adversary C_{S,q}^{\text{Enc}}
Repeat q times:
(R_1^{\star}, R_2^{\star}, D^{\star}) \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \text{Enc}(0^m)
If |G| < S and (R_1^{\star}, R_2^{\star}) is connected to G then
G \leftarrow G \cup \{((R_1^{\star}, R_2^{\star}), D^{\star})\} \text{ // Add edge } (R_1^{\star}, R_2^{\star}) \text{ with label } D^{\star}
If there exists an cycle \{e_i = ((R_{i,1}, R_{i,2}), D_i)\}_{i \in I} in G then
\text{Return } (\bigoplus_{i \in I} D_i) = 0^m
Return b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\} \text{ // Bad, return random guess}
```

As before, we set the query budget to twice the expected number of steps required and apply Markov's inequality to obtain the following Proposition.

<span id="page-31-0"></span>**Proposition 4.** Suppose  $1 \leq S \leq \sqrt{N/\log(N)}$ . Then, for

$$q = 4 \cdot \left(\frac{N}{S}\right)^2 ,$$

we have

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE}}(\mathcal{C}_{S,q}) \geqslant \frac{1}{2} \cdot (1 - 2^{-m}) \geqslant \frac{1}{4}$$

where  $C_{S,q}$  is  $((2n+m)\cdot S)$ -bounded and makes q queries to Enc.

Proof (of Proposition 4). This follows closely to the two proofs above. Consider games  $G_0 = \mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},q}(\mathcal{C}_{S,q})$  and  $\mathsf{G}_1 = \mathsf{G}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{SE},1}(\mathcal{B}_{S,q})$ . Let  $\mathsf{bad}_i$  for  $i \in \{0,1\}$  denote the event that  $\mathcal{C}_{S,q}$  executes the last return statement in games  $\mathsf{G}_0$  and  $\mathsf{G}_1$ . Similar to before, we have

$$\mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{SE}}^{\mathsf{indr}}(\mathcal{C}_{S,q}) = (1 - 2^{-m}) \cdot \mathsf{Pr}\left[\neg\mathsf{bad}\right] . \tag{55}$$

{32}------------------------------------------------

Via previous analysis, the expected number of steps until  $\mathcal{C}$  finds a cycle is at most  $2 \cdot (N/S)^2$ . Hence, for  $q = 4 \cdot (N/S)^2$ ,  $\Pr[\mathsf{bad}] \leqslant \frac{1}{2}$  by Markov's inequality. This justifies the proposition.  $\square$ 

## Acknowledgements

This work was partially supported by NSF grants CNS-1553758 (CAREER), CNS-1719146, and by a Sloan Research Fellowship.

## References

- <span id="page-32-8"></span>1. Rohit Agrawal. Samplers and Extractors for Unbounded Functions. In Dimitris Achlioptas and László A. Végh, editors, Approximation, Randomization, and Combinatorial Optimization. Algorithms and Techniques (APPROX/RANDOM 2019), volume 145 of Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics (LIPIcs), pages 59:1–59:21, Dagstuhl, Germany, 2019. Schloss Dagstuhl–Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Informatik.
- <span id="page-32-0"></span>2. Benedikt Auerbach, David Cash, Manuel Fersch, and Eike Kiltz. Memory-tight reductions. In Jonathan Katz and Hovav Shacham, editors, *CRYPTO 2017*, *Part I*, volume 10401 of *LNCS*, pages 101–132. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2017.
- <span id="page-32-12"></span>3. Yonatan Aumann and Michael O. Rabin. Information theoretically secure communication in the limited storage space model. In Michael J. Wiener, editor, *CRYPTO'99*, volume 1666 of *LNCS*, pages 65–79. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1999.
- <span id="page-32-5"></span>4. Boaz Barak, Yevgeniy Dodis, Hugo Krawczyk, Olivier Pereira, Krzysztof Pietrzak, François-Xavier Standaert, and Yu Yu. Leftover hash lemma, revisited. In Phillip Rogaway, editor, *CRYPTO 2011*, volume 6841 of *LNCS*, pages 1–20. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2011.
- <span id="page-32-11"></span>5. Paul Beame, Shayan Oveis Gharan, and Xin Yang. Time-space tradeoffs for learning finite functions from random evaluations, with applications to polynomials. In Sébastien Bubeck, Vianney Perchet, and Philippe Rigollet, editors, Conference On Learning Theory, COLT 2018, Stockholm, Sweden, 6-9 July 2018, volume 75 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 843–856. PMLR, 2018.
- <span id="page-32-10"></span>6. Mihir Bellare and Wei Dai. Defending against key exfiltration: Efficiency improvements for big-key cryptography via large-alphabet subkey prediction. In Bhavani M. Thuraisingham, David Evans, Tal Malkin, and Dongyan Xu, editors, ACM CCS 2017, pages 923–940. ACM Press, October / November 2017.
- <span id="page-32-1"></span>7. Mihir Bellare, Oded Goldreich, and Hugo Krawczyk. Stateless evaluation of pseudorandom functions: Security beyond the birthday barrier. In Michael J. Wiener, editor, *CRYPTO'99*, volume 1666 of *LNCS*, pages 270–287. Springer, Heidelberg, August 1999.
- <span id="page-32-9"></span>8. Mihir Bellare, Daniel Kane, and Phillip Rogaway. Big-key symmetric encryption: Resisting key exfiltration. In Matthew Robshaw and Jonathan Katz, editors, *CRYPTO 2016*, *Part I*, volume 9814 of *LNCS*, pages 373–402. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2016.
- <span id="page-32-2"></span>9. Mihir Bellare and Phillip Rogaway. The security of triple encryption and a framework for code-based game-playing proofs. In Serge Vaudenay, editor, *EUROCRYPT 2006*, volume 4004 of *LNCS*, pages 409–426. Springer, Heidelberg, May / June 2006.
- <span id="page-32-4"></span>10. C. H. Bennett, G. Brassard, C. Crepeau, and U. M. Maurer. Generalized privacy amplification. *IEEE Transactions on Information Theory*, 41(6):1915–1923, Nov 1995.
- <span id="page-32-3"></span>11. Andrey Bogdanov, Dmitry Khovratovich, and Christian Rechberger. Biclique cryptanalysis of the full AES. In Dong Hoon Lee and Xiaoyun Wang, editors, *ASIACRYPT 2011*, volume 7073 of *LNCS*, pages 344–371. Springer, Heidelberg, December 2011.
- <span id="page-32-14"></span>12. Ran Canetti, Guy Even, and Oded Goldreich. Lower bounds for sampling algorithms for estimating the average. *Inf. Process. Lett.*, 53(1):17–25, 1995.
- <span id="page-32-13"></span>13. Larry Carter and Mark N. Wegman. Universal classes of hash functions. J. Comput. Syst. Sci., 18(2):143–154, 1979.
- <span id="page-32-7"></span>14. Sandro Coretti, Yevgeniy Dodis, and Siyao Guo. Non-uniform bounds in the random-permutation, ideal-cipher, and generic-group models. In Hovav Shacham and Alexandra Boldyreva, editors, CRYPTO 2018, Part I, volume 10991 of LNCS, pages 693–721. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2018.
- <span id="page-32-6"></span>15. Sandro Coretti, Yevgeniy Dodis, Siyao Guo, and John P. Steinberger. Random oracles and non-uniformity. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen, editors, *EUROCRYPT 2018, Part I*, volume 10820 of *LNCS*, pages 227–258. Springer, Heidelberg, April / May 2018.

{33}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-33-8"></span>16. Wei Dai, Viet Tung Hoang, and Stefano Tessaro. Information-theoretic indistinguishability via the chi-squared method. In Jonathan Katz and Hovav Shacham, editors, CRYPTO 2017, Part III, volume 10403 of LNCS, pages 497–523. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2017.
- <span id="page-33-12"></span>17. Anindya De and Luca Trevisan. Extractors using hardness amplification. In Irit Dinur, Klaus Jansen, Joseph Naor, and Jos´e D. P. Rolim, editors, Approximation, Randomization, and Combinatorial Optimization. Algorithms and Techniques, 12th International Workshop, APPROX 2009, and 13th International Workshop, RANDOM 2009, Berkeley, CA, USA, August 21-23, 2009. Proceedings, volume 5687 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 462–475. Springer, 2009.
- <span id="page-33-16"></span>18. Giovanni Di Crescenzo, Richard J. Lipton, and Shabsi Walfish. Perfectly secure password protocols in the bounded retrieval model. In Shai Halevi and Tal Rabin, editors, TCC 2006, volume 3876 of LNCS, pages 225–244. Springer, Heidelberg, March 2006.
- <span id="page-33-2"></span>19. Itai Dinur. On the streaming indistinguishability of a random permutation and a random function. In Anne Canteaut and Yuval Ishai, editors, EUROCRYPT 2020, Part II, volume 12106 of LNCS, pages 433–460. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2020.
- <span id="page-33-1"></span>20. Itai Dinur. Tight time-space lower bounds for finding multiple collision pairs and their applications. In Anne Canteaut and Yuval Ishai, editors, EUROCRYPT 2020, Part I, volume 12105 of LNCS, pages 405–434. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2020.
- <span id="page-33-20"></span>21. Yevgeniy Dodis, Leonid Reyzin, and Adam Smith. Fuzzy extractors: How to generate strong keys from biometrics and other noisy data. In Christian Cachin and Jan Camenisch, editors, EUROCRYPT 2004, volume 3027 of LNCS, pages 523–540. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2004.
- <span id="page-33-15"></span>22. Stefan Dziembowski. Intrusion-resilience via the bounded-storage model. In Shai Halevi and Tal Rabin, editors, TCC 2006, volume 3876 of LNCS, pages 207–224. Springer, Heidelberg, March 2006.
- <span id="page-33-10"></span>23. Stefan Dziembowski and Ueli M. Maurer. Tight security proofs for the bounded-storage model. In 34th ACM STOC, pages 341–350. ACM Press, May 2002.
- <span id="page-33-14"></span>24. Stefan Dziembowski and Ueli M. Maurer. Optimal randomizer efficiency in the bounded-storage model. Journal of Cryptology, 17(1):5–26, January 2004.
- <span id="page-33-3"></span>25. Sumegha Garg, Pravesh K. Kothari, and Ran Raz. Time-space tradeoffs for distinguishing distributions and applications to security of goldreich's PRG. CoRR, abs/2002.07235, 2020.
- <span id="page-33-13"></span>26. Sumegha Garg, Ran Raz, and Avishay Tal. Extractor-based time-space lower bounds for learning. In Ilias Diakonikolas, David Kempe, and Monika Henzinger, editors, Proceedings of the 50th Annual ACM SIGACT Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC 2018, Los Angeles, CA, USA, June 25-29, 2018, pages 990–1002. ACM, 2018.
- <span id="page-33-6"></span>27. Peter Gaˇzi. Plain versus randomized cascading-based key-length extension for block ciphers. In Ran Canetti and Juan A. Garay, editors, CRYPTO 2013, Part I, volume 8042 of LNCS, pages 551–570. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2013.
- <span id="page-33-5"></span>28. Peter Gaˇzi and Stefano Tessaro. Efficient and optimally secure key-length extension for block ciphers via randomized cascading. In David Pointcheval and Thomas Johansson, editors, EUROCRYPT 2012, volume 7237 of LNCS, pages 63–80. Springer, Heidelberg, April 2012.
- <span id="page-33-0"></span>29. Ashrujit Ghoshal and Stefano Tessaro. On the memory-tightness of hashed ElGamal. In Anne Canteaut and Yuval Ishai, editors, EUROCRYPT 2020, Part II, volume 12106 of LNCS, pages 33–62. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2020.
- <span id="page-33-4"></span>30. Oded Goldreich. Candidate one-way functions based on expander graphs. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2000/063, 2000. <http://eprint.iacr.org/2000/063>.
- <span id="page-33-18"></span>31. Oded Goldreich, Noam Nisan, and Avi Wigderson. On yao's xor-lemma. In Studies in Complexity and Cryptography. Miscellanea on the Interplay between Randomness and Computation, pages 273–301. Springer, 2011.
- <span id="page-33-9"></span>32. Mika G¨o¨os, Shachar Lovett, Raghu Meka, Thomas Watson, and David Zuckerman. Rectangles are nonnegative juntas. In Rocco A. Servedio and Ronitt Rubinfeld, editors, 47th ACM STOC, pages 257–266. ACM Press, June 2015.
- <span id="page-33-7"></span>33. Viet Tung Hoang and Stefano Tessaro. Key-alternating ciphers and key-length extension: Exact bounds and multi-user security. In Matthew Robshaw and Jonathan Katz, editors, CRYPTO 2016, Part I, volume 9814 of LNCS, pages 3–32. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2016.
- <span id="page-33-19"></span>34. Russell Impagliazzo. Hard-core distributions for somewhat hard problems. In 36th FOCS, pages 538–545. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 1995.
- <span id="page-33-11"></span>35. Russell Impagliazzo, Ragesh Jaiswal, and Valentine Kabanets. Approximately list-decoding direct product codes and uniform hardness amplification. In 47th FOCS, pages 187–196. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2006.
- <span id="page-33-17"></span>36. Russell Impagliazzo, Ragesh Jaiswal, and Valentine Kabanets. Approximate list-decoding of direct product codes and uniform hardness amplification. SIAM Journal on Computing, 39(2):564–605, 2009.

{34}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-34-6"></span>37. Russell Impagliazzo, Ragesh Jaiswal, Valentine Kabanets, and Avi Wigderson. Uniform direct product theorems: simplified, optimized, and derandomized. In Richard E. Ladner and Cynthia Dwork, editors, 40th ACM STOC, pages 579–588. ACM Press, May 2008.
- 38. Russell Impagliazzo, Leonid A. Levin, and Michael Luby. Pseudo-random generation from one-way functions (extended abstracts). In 21st ACM STOC, pages 12–24. ACM Press, May 1989.
- <span id="page-34-2"></span>39. Joseph Jaeger and Stefano Tessaro. Tight time-memory trade-offs for symmetric encryption. In Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen, editors, EUROCRYPT 2019, Part I, volume 11476 of LNCS, pages 467–497. Springer, Heidelberg, May 2019.
- <span id="page-34-8"></span>40. Gillat Kol, Ran Raz, and Avishay Tal. Time-space hardness of learning sparse parities. In Hamed Hatami, Pierre McKenzie, and Valerie King, editors, 49th ACM STOC, pages 1067–1080. ACM Press, June 2017.
- <span id="page-34-10"></span>41. Leonid A Levin. One way functions and pseudorandom generators. Combinatorica, 7(4):357–363, 1987.
- <span id="page-34-9"></span>42. Ueli M. Maurer. Conditionally-perfect secrecy and a provably-secure randomized cipher. Journal of Cryptology, 5(1):53–66, January 1992.
- <span id="page-34-3"></span>43. Ran Raz. Fast learning requires good memory: A time-space lower bound for parity learning. In Irit Dinur, editor, 57th FOCS, pages 266–275. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2016.
- <span id="page-34-7"></span>44. Ran Raz. A time-space lower bound for a large class of learning problems. In Chris Umans, editor, 58th FOCS, pages 732–742. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2017.
- <span id="page-34-1"></span>45. Stefano Tessaro and Aishwarya Thiruvengadam. Provable time-memory trade-offs: Symmetric cryptography against memory-bounded adversaries. In Amos Beimel and Stefan Dziembowski, editors, TCC 2018, Part I, volume 11239 of LNCS, pages 3–32. Springer, Heidelberg, November 2018.
- <span id="page-34-5"></span>46. Luca Trevisan. List-decoding using the XOR lemma. In 44th FOCS, pages 126–135. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 2003.
- <span id="page-34-4"></span>47. Salil P. Vadhan. On constructing locally computable extractors and cryptosystems in the bounded storage model. In Dan Boneh, editor, CRYPTO 2003, volume 2729 of LNCS, pages 61–77. Springer, Heidelberg, August 2003.
- <span id="page-34-0"></span>48. Yuyu Wang, Takahiro Matsuda, Goichiro Hanaoka, and Keisuke Tanaka. Memory lower bounds of reductions revisited. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen, editors, EUROCRYPT 2018, Part I, volume 10820 of LNCS, pages 61–90. Springer, Heidelberg, April / May 2018.
- <span id="page-34-11"></span>49. David Zuckerman. Randomness-optimal sampling, extractors, and constructive leader election. In 28th ACM STOC, pages 286–295. ACM Press, May 1996.

{35}------------------------------------------------

### <span id="page-35-0"></span>A Proof sketch of Theorem 2

The proof of Theorem 2 that instantiates StE using a PRP, is very similar to the proof of Theorem 1. Hence, instead of giving a complete proof for the PRP case, we highlight the arguments that are considerably different from their counterparts in the PRF case. In particular, we will focus on the major changes that occur in the following two parts.

- Defining dense variable and decomposition.
- Min-entropy estimation for  $\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\Lambda[\hat{\boldsymbol{r}}^{\{j\}}] \mid \Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}])$ .

DENSE VARIABLES AND DECOMPOSITION. One major change in the proof is that we adapt the definition of dense variables for permutations, initially introduced in [14]. Here, we call a random variable X to be a random N-permutation variable if it is distributed over all permutations that map [N] to [N] where  $N = 2^n$ .

**Definition 2.** A random N-permutation variable X is called  $(P, 1 - \delta)$ -dense if at most P coordinates of X are fixed and, for every subset  $I \subseteq [N]$  that contains only non-fixed coordinates, it holds that

$$\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(X_I) \geqslant (1-\delta)\log(N-P)^{|I|}$$
,

where  $a^{\underline{b}} := a(a-1)\cdots(a-b+1)$  and  $X_I$  is the random variable X restricted on the set of coordinates I.

To this point, we use the decomposition lemma that is specifically tailored for the random N-permutation variable. The proof of the lemma can be found in [14].

<span id="page-35-1"></span>**Lemma 8.** If  $\Gamma$  is a N-permutation variable with min-entropy deficiency  $S_{\Gamma} = \log N! - \mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\Gamma)$ , then, for every  $\delta > 0$ ,  $\gamma > 0$ ,  $\Gamma$  can be represented as a convex combination of finitely many  $(P, 1 - \delta)$ -dense variables  $\{\Lambda_1, \Lambda_2, ...\}$  for

$$P = \frac{S_{\Gamma} + \log 1/\gamma}{\delta \cdot \log(N/e)}$$

and an additional random variable  $\Lambda_{\sf end}$  whose weight is less than  $\gamma$ .

Similar to the PRF instantiation proof, we find a deterministic function  $\mathcal{L}(F)$  that maps F to an S-bit string such that

$$\mathsf{H}(Y_i \mid \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y}))) \geqslant \mathsf{H}(Y_i \mid \mathcal{L}(F))$$
.

We define  $F_z$  to be F conditioned on  $\mathcal{L}(F) = z$  and set  $S_z = \log N! - \mathsf{H}_{\infty}(X)$ . We let  $\delta_z = \frac{S_z + \log 1/\gamma}{P \cdot \log(N/e)}$  where P is to be chosen later. Then we apply Lemma 8 and move on to analyze each decomposed  $(P, 1 - \delta_z)$ -dense variable.

MIN-ENTROPY ESTIMATION. The second major change occurs when estimating the  $\mu$ , where

$$\mu := \mathop{\mathbf{E}}_{\boldsymbol{r}} \left[ \min\{\ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}}] | \boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}])} \} \right]$$

and  $\Lambda$  is a  $(P, 1 - \delta_z)$ -dense permutation variable. Specifically, we obtain a slightly different lower bound for the min-entropy term

$$\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}}]|\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) = -\log\left(\sum_{\boldsymbol{V} \in [N]^{k(j-1)}} \max_{\boldsymbol{v} \in [N]^{k}} \mathsf{Pr}\left[\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j\}}] = \boldsymbol{V} \parallel \boldsymbol{v}\right]\right).$$

{36}------------------------------------------------

Suppose that t coordinates in  $r^{\{j\}}$  hit at fixing points, and  $t_0$  coordinates in  $r^{\{1:j-1\}}$  hit at fixing coordinates, note that given the random variable  $\Lambda$  is a  $(P, 1-\delta)$ -dense permutation variable, then by union bound it holds that

$$\begin{split} & \sum_{V \in [N]^{k(j-1)}} \max_{v \in [N]^k} \Pr\left[ \Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j\}}] = V \parallel v \right] \\ & \leqslant (N-P) \frac{(j-1)k-t_0}{\cdot} \cdot \left( (N-P) \frac{jk-t-t_0}{\cdot} \right)^{-(1-\delta)} \\ & = \left( (N-P) \frac{(j-1)k-t_0}{\cdot} \right)^{\delta} \cdot \left( (N-P-(j-1)k+t_0) \frac{k-t}{\cdot} \right)^{-(1-\delta)} \ . \end{split}$$

Further, by  $a^{\underline{b}} \leqslant a^b$ , we have

$$\begin{split} & \sum_{V \in [N]^{k(j-1)}} \max_{v \in [N]^k} \Pr\left[ \Lambda[r^{\{1:j\}}] = V \parallel v \right] \\ & \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j-1)k-\delta t_0} \cdot \left( (N-P-(j-1)k+t_0)^{\underline{k-t}} \right)^{-(1-\delta)} \\ & \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j-1)k-\delta t_0 - (1-\delta)(k-t)} \cdot \left( \prod_{q=0}^{k-t-1} \frac{N-P-(j-1)k+t_0-q}{N-P} \right)^{-(1-\delta)} \\ & \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j-1)k-(1-\delta)(k-t)} \cdot \prod_{q=0}^{k-t-1} \left( \frac{N-P}{N-P-(j-1)k+t_0-q} \right)^{1-\delta} \\ & \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(jk-t)-(k-t)} \cdot \prod_{q=0}^{k-t-1} \left( \frac{N-P}{N-P-(j-1)k-q} \right)^{1-\delta} \; . \end{split}$$

Here, if we require P to satisfy that  $P+Bk \leq N/2$  and given  $N \geq 16$ , then for any  $0 \leq q \leq k-t-1$  and any  $1 \leq j \leq B$ , it holds that

$$\frac{N-P}{N-P-(j-1)k-q} \leqslant \frac{N-P}{N-P-Bk} \leqslant \frac{N-P}{N/2} \leqslant 2.$$

Hence, we arrive at

$$\begin{split} \sum_{V \in [N]^{k(j-1)}} \max_{v \in [N]^k} \Pr\left[ A[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j\}}] = V \parallel v \right] &\leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(jk-t) - (k-t)} \cdot 2^{(1-\delta)(k-t)} \\ &\leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(jk-t)} \cdot \left(\frac{4}{N}\right)^{k-t} \\ &\leqslant N^{\delta(jk-t)} \cdot \left(\frac{4}{N}\right)^{k-t} \end{split}$$

Therefore, if  $P + Bk \leq N/2$  holds, the lower bound for the min-entropy is

$$\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\Lambda[\mathbf{r}^{\{j\}}]|\Lambda[\mathbf{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) \geqslant -2(k-t) + [k-t-\delta(jk-t)]\log N$$
.

{37}------------------------------------------------

Then, the upper bound of  $\mu$  is obtained by following the remaining argument as in the proof for the PRF case. By further applying Proposition 5, which is proved in the next section, we have

$$\mu \leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^{t} \cdot \min \left\{ \ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot (N-P)^{\delta(jk-t)} \cdot \left(\frac{4}{N}\right)^{k-t} \right\}$$

$$\leqslant \sum_{t=0}^{k} \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^{t} \cdot \min \left\{ \ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot N^{\delta B k} \cdot \left(\frac{4}{N}\right)^{k-t} \right\}.$$

By plugging in  $\delta = \frac{S_z + \log 1/\gamma}{P \log(N/e)}$ , we have

$$\mu \leqslant \sum_{t=0}^k \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^t \cdot \min \left\{ \ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{\frac{(S_z + \log 1/\gamma)Bk \log N}{P \log(N/e)}} \cdot \left(\frac{2}{N-P}\right)^{k-t} \right\} .$$

Since we consider only  $N \ge 16$ , it holds that  $\frac{\log N}{\log(N/e)} \le 2$ , and we have

$$\mu \leqslant \sum_{t=0}^k \binom{k}{t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^t \cdot \min \left\{ \ell, 2^{\ell+1} \cdot 2^{\frac{2(S_z + \log 1/\gamma)Bk}{P}} \cdot \left(\frac{4}{N}\right)^{k-t} \right\} \ .$$

The rest of the proof does not differ from its counterpart in the PRF case, we again set  $\gamma = (1/N)^k$  and  $P = (S + \log 1/\gamma)B$ , and the bound holds when  $P + Bk = (S + k \log N)B + Bk \leq N/2$ .

## <span id="page-37-0"></span>B Omitted proofs for StE

#### **B.1** Proof of Corollaries

PROOF OF COROLLARY 1. Here,  $\varepsilon$  can be further upper bounded as

$$\varepsilon \leqslant \frac{\ell}{N^k} + 2^{\ell+1} \sum_{t=0}^k \binom{k}{t} \left( \frac{(2S + 2kn)B}{N} \right)^t \cdot (2/N)^{k-t}$$

$$= \frac{\ell}{N^k} + 2^{\ell+1} \left( \frac{(2S + 2kn)B + 2}{N} \right)^k \leqslant 2^{\ell+1} \left( \frac{(2S + 2kn)B + 3}{N} \right)^k ,$$

which concludes the proof.

PROOF OF COROLLARY 2. For notation simplicity we let P=(2S+2kn)B. Note that for the summation terms in  $\varepsilon$ , when t=k, it immediately follows that  $\min\{\ell,2^{\ell+1}\}=\ell=n$ , while for t< k, given  $N=2^n\geqslant 16$ , it holds that  $\min\{\ell,2^{\ell+1}\cdot(2/N)^{k-t}\}=2^{\ell+1}\cdot(2/N)^{k-t}=2N\cdot(2/N)^{k-t}$ . Hence, we have

$$\varepsilon = \frac{n}{N^k} + 2N \sum_{t=0}^{k-1} {k \choose t} \left(\frac{P}{N}\right)^t \cdot (2/N)^{k-t} + \frac{nP^k}{N^k}$$
$$= \frac{n + n \cdot P^k}{N^k} + 2 \cdot \frac{\sum_{t=0}^{k-1} {k \choose t} P^t 2^{k-t}}{N^{k-1}}.$$

By the fact that  $\binom{k}{t} \leqslant k \cdot \binom{k-1}{t}$  for all  $0 \leqslant t \leqslant k-1$ , we obtain that

$$\varepsilon \leqslant \frac{n(1+P^k)}{N^k} + 4 \cdot \frac{k\sum_{t=0}^{k-1} {k-1 \choose t} P^t 2^{k-t-1}}{N^{k-1}} = \frac{n+nP^k}{N^k} + \frac{4k(P+2)^{k-1}}{N^{k-1}}$$

{38}------------------------------------------------

$$=\frac{4k(P+2)^{k-1}+n\cdot(P/N)+n}{N^{k-1}}\leqslant \frac{4k(P+2)^{k-1}+2n}{N^{k-1}}\leqslant \frac{4k(P+4n)^{k-1}}{N^{k-1}}\;.$$

This concludes the proof.

### <span id="page-38-0"></span>**B.2** Proof of propositions

MAXIMIZER. Within both proofs of Theorem 1 and Theorem 2, after decomposing the random variable F into some  $(P, 1 - \delta)$ -dense variables, with  $P_t$  coordinates fixed in the domain of t-th probe such that  $\sum_t P_t = P$ , we claimed that the bound is maximized when  $P_1 = \cdots = P_k = P/k$ . Here we prove an even more general result which applies to both cases.

<span id="page-38-1"></span>**Proposition 5.** Given any integers  $k, N \ge 0$  and any function  $f : \mathbb{N} \to \mathbb{R}^+$ , for any  $(P_1, ..., P_k)$  such that  $\sum_{t=1}^k P_t = P \le N$ , with  $0 \le P_t \le N/k$  for all t. The function

$$G(P_1, ..., P_k) = \sum_{t=0}^{k} \sum_{U \in \binom{[k]}{t}} \left( \prod_{u \in U} \left( \frac{P_u}{N/k} \right) \cdot f(t) \right)$$

achieves its maximum at point  $P_1 = P_2 = \cdots = P_k = P/k$ 

*Proof.* We consider a slightly extended domain of  $(P_1, ..., P_k)$ 

$$\Delta = \{ (P_1, ..., P_k) \mid \forall t \in [k] : P_t \in \mathbb{R}, P_t \geqslant 0, \sum_{t=1}^k P_t = P \}$$

Since the domain  $\Delta$  is closed and bounded and function G is continuous, by the extreme value theorem, there exists a  $(p_1, ..., p_k) \in \Delta$  such that

$$G(p_1,...,p_k) = \max_{P_1,...,P_k} G(P_1,...,P_k)$$
.

In particular, we show that the maximum is achieved at  $P_1 = \cdots = P_k = P/k$ .

Suppose there exists two indices  $1 \le a < b \le k$  such that in  $(P_1, ..., P_k)$  it holds that  $P_a \ne P_b$ . Then, we show that

$$G(P_1,...,P_a,...,P_b,...,P_k) < G(P_1,...,\frac{P_a+P_b}{2},...,\frac{P_a+P_b}{2},...,P_k)$$
.

We let  $Q_t = P_t$  for all  $t \in [k] - \{a, b\}$  and  $Q_a = Q_b = (P_a + P_b)/2$ , then it holds that

$$G(Q_{1},...,Q_{k}) - G(P_{1},...,P_{k})$$

$$= \sum_{t=0}^{k} f(t) \left( \sum_{U \in \binom{[k]}{t}} \left( \prod_{u \in U} \left( \frac{Q_{u}}{N/k} \right) \right) - \sum_{U \in \binom{[k]}{t}} \left( \prod_{u \in U} \left( \frac{P_{u}}{N/k} \right) \right) \right)$$

$$= \sum_{t=0}^{k} f(t) \left( \sum_{U \in \binom{[k]-\{a,b\}}{t-2}} \left( \frac{Q_{a}Q_{b} - P_{a}P_{b}}{N^{2}/k^{2}} \cdot \prod_{u \in U} \left( \frac{P_{u}}{N/k} \right) \right) \right)$$

$$+ \sum_{U \in \binom{[k]-\{a,b\}}{t-1}} \left( \frac{Q_{a} + Q_{b} - P_{a} - P_{b}}{N/k} \prod_{u \in U} \left( \frac{P_{u}}{N/k} \right) \right) \right).$$

{39}------------------------------------------------

Note that for all t, f(t) > 0. Also notice that  $P_a + P_b = Q_a + Q_b$  and  $Q_a Q_b > P_a P_b$ . We conclude that  $G(Q_1, ..., Q_k) > G(P_1, ..., P_k)$ . Further,  $(Q_1, ..., Q_k) \in \Delta$ .

Hence any point in  $\Delta$  other than  $P_1 = \cdots = P_k = P/k$  is excluded, implying (P/k, ..., P/k) achieves the maximum of G. Otherwise, we would obtain a contradiction.

Leftover-hash Lemma for Shannon Entropy In this part we present the proof for Proposition 1. Within the proof, we will first consider bounding the Shannon entropy of extracted random variable conditioned only on the seed. Then we move to prove the entropy bound for random variables with side-information Z.

Proof of Proposition 1. We use  $W_z$  to denote the random variable W conditioned on Z=z. We first prove the following claim.

Claim. For any z, it holds that

$$\mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W_z)|\mathsf{sd}) \geqslant \ell - \log(1 + 2^{\ell} \cdot 2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W_z)})$$
.

*Proof.* First by the chain rule of conditional entropy and the fact that for any random variable X,  $H(X) \ge H_2(X)$  where  $H_2(\cdot)$  denotes collision entropy, we have

$$\mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W_z)|\mathsf{sd}) = \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W_z),\mathsf{sd}) - \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{sd}) \geqslant \mathsf{H}_2(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W_z),\mathsf{sd}) - s$$
.

Hence, given that h is a 2-universal hash function, it is sufficient to derive a lower bound for collision entropy. We let  $W_1, W_2$  be two i.i.d random variables with the same distribution as  $W_z$ . Let  $S_1, S_2$  be two i.i.d. seeds from  $U_s$ . Then, the collision entropy can be estimated as

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{H}_2(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W_z),\mathsf{sd}) &= -\log \mathsf{Pr}_{W_1,W_2,S_1,S_2}[(\mathsf{h}_{S_1}(W_1),S_1) = (\mathsf{h}_{S_2}(W_2),S_2)] \\ &= -\log \mathsf{Pr}[S_1 = S_2] \mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{h}_{S_1}(W_1) = \mathsf{h}_{S_2}(W_2) | S_1 = S_2] \\ &\geqslant -\log \frac{1}{2^s} \left( \frac{1}{2^{\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W_z)}} + \frac{1}{2^\ell} \right) \\ &\geqslant -\log \frac{1 + 2^{\ell - \mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W_z)}}{2^{s + \ell}} \\ &\geqslant \ell + s - \log(1 + 2^{\ell - \mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W_z)}) \; . \end{split}$$

Therefore, it immediately follows that

$$\mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W_z)|\mathsf{sd}) \geqslant \mathsf{H}_2(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W_z),\mathsf{sd}) - s = \ell - \log(1 + 2^{\ell - \mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W_z)}) \; .$$

Hence, we have concluded the proof of the claim.

Now, by the convexity of conditional entropy over probability mass function, we have

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W)|\mathsf{sd},Z) \geqslant \sum_{z} \Pr[Z=z] \cdot \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W_z)|\mathsf{sd}] \\ \geqslant \ell - \sum_{z} \Pr[Z=z] \cdot \log(1 + 2^{\ell} \cdot 2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W_z)}) \;. \end{split}$$

{40}------------------------------------------------

```
Scheme StE^+[F, Ext, Samp]
                                                                                                            Procedure \mathsf{Dec}(K,C)
Procedure Enc(K, M)
                                                                                                            (\operatorname{\mathsf{sd}},\operatorname{\mathsf{rd}},C_1,\ldots,C_B) \leftarrow C
B \leftarrow |M|_l
                                                                                                            \mathbf{R} = (R_1, ..., R_{\mathsf{Samp}.d(n)}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Samp}(\mathsf{rd})
M_1, \ldots, M_B \leftarrow M \; ; \; \mathsf{sd} \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0, 1\}^s
                                                                                                            For i \in [B] do
rd \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \{0,1\}^{|\mathsf{Samp}.r(n)|}
                                                                                                                 For j \in [\mathsf{Samp}.d(n)] do
\mathbf{R} = (R_1, ..., R_{\mathsf{Samp}.d(n)}) \leftarrow \mathsf{Samp}(\mathsf{rd})
                                                                                                                      V_{i,j} \leftarrow F(K, (j-1) || R_j + i - 1))
For i \in [B] do
                                                                                                            For i \in [B] do
    For j \in [\mathsf{Samp}.d(n)] do
                                                                                                                 M_i \leftarrow C_i \oplus \operatorname{Ext}(V_{i,1} \| ... \| V_{i,\operatorname{Samp}.d(n)}, \operatorname{sd})
         V_{i,j} \leftarrow \mathsf{F}(K,(j-1) \| R_j + i - 1))
                                                                                                            Return M_1 \| \cdots \| M_B
For i \in [B] do
    C_i \leftarrow M_i \oplus \operatorname{Ext}(V_{i,1} \| ... \| V_{i,\operatorname{Samp}.d(n)}, \operatorname{sd})
Return (sd, rd, C_1, \ldots, C_B)
```

<span id="page-40-1"></span>**Fig. 6.** The improved sample-then-extract encryption scheme  $SE = StE^+[F, Ext, Samp]$ . The parameter d(n) is the number of samples generated by Samp given security parameter n, and r(n) is the number of randomness needed by Samp. All additions and subtractions are under modulus  $2^{n-\lceil \log d(n) \rceil}$ . The key space and message space of SE are SE.Ks = F.Ks and  $SE.M = (\{0,1\}^{\ell})^+$ .

Further, by the concavity of the  $\log(\cdot)$  function and Jensen's inequality, we obtain that

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{H}(\mathsf{h}_{\mathsf{sd}}(W)|\mathsf{sd},Z) &\geqslant \ell - \log\left(1 + 2^{\ell} \cdot \sum_{z} \mathsf{Pr}[Z=z] \cdot 2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W_z)}\right) \\ &\geqslant \ell - \log\left(1 + 2^{\ell} \cdot 2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W|Z)}\right) \geqslant \ell - 2^{\ell+1-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(W|Z)} \;. \end{split}$$

The last inequality comes from  $\frac{x}{\ln 2} \ge \log(1+x)$ . The other term in min function is obtained by observing that Shannon entropy is non-negative.

### <span id="page-40-0"></span>C StE with small ciphertexts

We observe that StE scheme includes a large number of random bits in the ciphertext per query. In particular, for example, when  $SB \approx N/10$ , to tolerate  $q > 2^n$  queries, the probe complexity has  $k = \Theta(n)$ . With each probe that requires  $\Theta(n)$  random bits, the total random bits per query is  $\Theta(n^2)$ , which is infeasible for practical applications. In this section, we improve the StE scheme to StE<sup>+</sup>, as shown in Figure 6 by adapting a randomness-efficient strong oblivious sampler and a seed-optimal extractor, so that, even SB is a constant fraction of N, the scheme can tolerate at least  $q > 2^n$  queries with each query costs only O(n) random bits instead of  $\Theta(n^2)$ .

Sampler We instantiate Samp by the strong oblivious sampler with randomness complexity that is close to optimal. The construction is introduced by Zuckerman [48].

<span id="page-40-3"></span><span id="page-40-2"></span>**Definition 3.** A strong  $(r, m, d, \eta, \varepsilon)$ -oblivious sampler is a deterministic algorithm which, on inputting a uniformly random r-bit string, outputs a sequence of points  $z_1, ..., z_d \in \{0, 1\}^m$  such that for any collection of functions  $f_1, ..., f_d : \{0, 1\}^m \to [0, 1]$ ,

$$\Pr\left[\left|\frac{1}{d}\sum_{i=1}^{d}(f_i(z_i)-\mathbf{E}f_i)\right|\leqslant \varepsilon\right]\geqslant 1-\eta$$
.

{41}------------------------------------------------

**Lemma 9.** There is a constant  $c_{\mathsf{Samp}}$  such that for any  $\beta > 0$  and any  $\eta = \eta(m), \varepsilon = \varepsilon(m)$  and  $\alpha$  with  $m^{-1/2\log^* m} \leqslant \alpha \leqslant 1/2$  and  $\varepsilon \geqslant \exp(-\alpha^{\log^* m} m^{1-\beta})$ , there exists an efficient strong  $(r, m, d, \eta, \varepsilon)$ -oblivious sampler construction that uses  $r = (1 + \alpha)(m + \log \eta^{-1})$  random bits and outputs  $d = ((m + \log \eta^{-1})/\varepsilon)^{\frac{c_{\mathsf{Samp}} \log \alpha^{-1}}{\alpha}}$  sample points.

EXTRACTOR We start with the following extractor, which has optimal seed length. We then convert it into an average-case extractor where the adversary may have some side information with respect to the random variable being extracted.

**Lemma 10.** [48] There is a constant  $c_{\mathsf{Ext}}$  such that for any  $\beta > 0$ ,  $\alpha = \alpha(m) \leq 1/2$ ,  $\delta = \delta(m) \leq 1$ , and  $\varepsilon = \varepsilon(m)$ , with  $m^{-1/2log^*m} \leq \alpha < \delta$  and  $\varepsilon \geq \exp(-\alpha^{\log^* m} m^{1-\beta})$ , there is an explicit efficient strong extractor construction

$$\mathsf{Ext}: \{0,1\}^m \times \{0,1\}^{\frac{c_{\mathsf{Ext}}\log\alpha^{-1}}{\alpha}(\log m + \log\varepsilon^{-1})} \to \{0,1\}^{(\delta-\alpha)m}$$

such that for any m-bit random variable X with  $H_{\infty}(X) \geq \delta m$ , it holds that

$$\Delta((\operatorname{Ext}(X,\operatorname{sd}),\operatorname{sd}),\ (U_{(\delta-\alpha)m},\operatorname{sd}))\leqslant\varepsilon\ ,$$

where sd is from the uniform distribution over the seed space.

However, the adversary may have some side information W with respect to the random variable X, and we would like the extracted randomness appears uniform even given the side information W. By applying the analysis from Dodis  $et\ al.\ [21]$ , we obtain the following corollary.

<span id="page-41-0"></span>**Corollary 3.** There is a constant  $c_{\mathsf{Ext}}$  such that for any  $\beta > 0$ ,  $\alpha \leq 1/2, \delta \leq 1$ , and  $\varepsilon = \varepsilon(m)$ , with  $m^{-1/2log^*m} \leq \alpha < \delta$  and  $\varepsilon \geq \exp(-\alpha^{\log^* m} m^{1-\beta})$ , there is an explicit efficient (average-case) strong extractor construction

$$\mathsf{Ext}: \{0,1\}^m \times \{0,1\}^{\frac{c_{\mathsf{Ext}}\log\alpha^{-1}}{\alpha}(\log m + \log\varepsilon^{-1})} \to \{0,1\}^{(\delta-\alpha)m}$$

such that if  $H_{\infty}(X|W) \ge \delta m + \log 1/\varepsilon$ , then

$$\Delta((\operatorname{Ext}(X,\operatorname{sd}),\operatorname{sd},W)\;,\;(U_{(\delta-\alpha)m},\operatorname{sd},W))\leqslant 2\varepsilon\;,$$

where sd is from the uniform distribution over the seed space.

**Theorem 4.** Let  $F: F.Ks \times \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^n$  be the a keyed permutation family. Let Ext be the extractor construction as in Corollary 3. Let the sampler Samp be the strong oblivious sampler as in Lemma 9. Let  $N=2^n$ , then for any constant c, if  $N=2^n$  is sufficiently large, then for any block length  $\ell \leq n^{c_{\mathsf{Samp}}+1}/12$ , where  $c_{\mathsf{Samp}}$  is a universal constant associated with  $\mathsf{Samp}$ , it holds that for any S-bounded adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}$  which asks q queries where each query consists of messages of at most B  $\ell$ -bit blocks such that  $(S+cn)B \leq N/8$  and  $B \leq \frac{N}{8d(n)}$ , where d(n) is the number of sample points generated by the sampler, there exists an S-bounded PRP adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prp}}$  that issues at most  $O(qB \cdot n^{c_{\mathsf{Samp}}})$  queries to the oracle and is as efficient as  $\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}$  such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{indr}}_{\mathsf{StE}^+[\mathsf{F},\mathsf{Ext},\mathsf{Samp}]}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{prp}}_{\mathsf{F}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prp}}) + \frac{4qB}{N^c} \;,$$

with randomness complexity O(n) per query.

{42}------------------------------------------------

*Proof.* We first state the instantiation parameters given the security parameter n. Note that given a sufficiently large n, the following choice of parameters exist.

- 1. Samp:  $\{0,1\}^{r(n)} \to (\{0,1\}^{m(n)})^{d(n)}$  as in Lemma 9
  - Let  $\eta(n) = 2^{-cn}$ ,  $\varepsilon = 1/4$  and  $\alpha = 1/2$ .
  - Pick  $m(n) \ge 1, d(n) \ge 1$  such that

$$\begin{cases} m(n) = n - \lceil \log d(n) \rceil \\ d(n) = ((m(n) + \log \eta(n)^{-1})/\varepsilon)^{c_{\mathsf{Samp}} \log(\alpha^{-1})/\alpha} = (4m(n) + 4cn)^{2c_{\mathsf{Samp}}} \end{cases}.$$

- Hence, the randomness complexity of Samp is  $r \leq \frac{3}{2}(n+cn) = O(n)$ .
- 2. Ext:  $\{0,1\}^{m(n)} \times \{0,1\}^{(\log m(n) + \log \varepsilon^{-1})} \to \{0,1\}^{\ell}$  derived from Corollary 3
  - Let  $m(n) = d(n) \cdot n$ ,  $\alpha = 1/4$ ,  $\delta = 1/3$ ,  $\varepsilon(n) = 2^{-cn} > \exp(-\alpha^{\log^* m(n)} m(n)^{0.99})$ .
  - The output of length  $(\delta \alpha)m(n) = \frac{d(n) \cdot n}{12}$  is truncated to  $\ell$  bits.
  - Thus the randomness complexity of Ext is  $r \leq 8c_{\text{Ext}}(O(\log n) + cn) = O(n)$ .

We omit the following two steps of the proof as they are similar to the proof for Theorem 1 and Theorem 2.

- PRP-RP hybrid argument from keyed permutation family F to truly random permutation family  $\Pi$ .
- Reduction from the Real-or-Random game adversary that makes q queries with each query has at most B blocks to the adversary that distinguishes two streams  $\mathbf{X}^q$  and  $\mathbf{Y}^q$ .

We define the two streams  $\mathbf{X}$  and  $\mathbf{Y}$  as the following.

- $X_i = (U_{B\ell}, \mathsf{sd}_i, \mathsf{rd}_i)$ , where  $U_{B\ell}$  is the uniform distribution over  $\{0, 1\}^{B\ell}$ .
- $Y_i = (\text{Ext}(\Pi[\mathbf{R}_i^{\{1\}}], \mathsf{sd}_i), \dots, \text{Ext}(\Pi[\mathbf{R}_i^{\{B\}}], \mathsf{sd}_i), \mathsf{sd}_i, \mathsf{rd}_i)$ , where  $\Pi$  is a random permutation that maps n bits to n bits and  $\mathbf{R}_i = \mathsf{Samp}(\mathsf{rd}_i)$ .

First, we can use the following lemma to reduce the multiple-query case to the single-query case.

<span id="page-42-0"></span>**Lemma 11.** Let  $\mathbf{X}^q = (X_1, ..., X_q)$  be independent and uniformly sampled from [N], where N is any positive number. Then, for any  $\mathbf{Y}^q = (Y_1, ..., Y_q)$  such that  $Y_i \in [N]$ , for any streaming distinguisher A,

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{\mathbf{X},\mathbf{Y}}(\mathcal{A}) \leqslant \sum_{i=1}^{q} \Delta((Y_i,\sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y}))),\ (X_i,\sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y})))))\ ,$$

where the notation  $\Delta(P, Q)$  is the total variation distance of distribution P and Q.

*Proof.* We use  $\Gamma_i = \sigma_i(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{Y}))$  to denote the state that  $\mathcal{A}$  maintains after processing  $Y_i$  from stream  $\mathbf{Y}$ , and  $\Sigma_i = \sigma_i(\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{X}))$  to denote the state outputted by  $\mathcal{A}$  after processing  $X_i$  from stream  $\mathbf{X}$ . Then, it immediately follows that for the initial state of  $\mathcal{A}$ , it holds that  $\Delta(\Sigma_0, \Gamma_0) = 0$ , and for the advantage  $\mathsf{Adv}_{\mathbf{X},\mathbf{Y}}^{\mathsf{dist}}(\mathcal{A})$ , we have

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathsf{dist}}_{\mathbf{X},\mathbf{Y}}(\mathcal{A}) \leqslant \Delta(\Sigma_q,\Gamma_q) \ .$$

{43}------------------------------------------------

Now, consider  $\Delta(\Sigma_i, \Gamma_i)$  for any i > 0. We show that

<span id="page-43-0"></span>
$$\Delta(\Sigma_i, \Gamma_i) \leq \Delta(\Sigma_{i-1}, \Gamma_{i-1}) + \Delta((Y_i, \Gamma_{i-1}), (X_i, \Gamma_{i-1})). \tag{56}$$

We use P(x,s) to denote the probability  $\Pr[(X_{i-1}, \Sigma_{i-1}) = (x,s)]$ , and, similarly, Q(x,s) to denote the probability  $\Pr[(Y_{i-1}, \Gamma_{i-1}) = (x,s)]$ . With slight abuse of notation, we denote the marginal probability  $P(s) = \Pr[\Sigma_{i-1} = s] = \sum_{x'} P(x',s)$  and  $Q(s) = \Pr[\Gamma_{i-1} = s] = \sum_{x'} Q(x',s)$ . Then, we can prove (56) as the following.

$$\Delta(\Sigma_{i}, \Gamma_{i}) = \Delta(A(i, X_{i-1}, \Sigma_{i-1}), A(i, Y_{i-1}, \Gamma_{i-1})) 
\leq \Delta((X_{i-1}, \Sigma_{i-1}), (Y_{i-1}, \Gamma_{i-1})) 
= \frac{1}{2} \sum_{x,s} |P(x,s) - Q(x,s)| = \frac{1}{2} \sum_{x,s} \left| \frac{P(s)}{N} - Q(x,s) \right| 
\leq \frac{1}{2} \sum_{x,s} \left( \left| \frac{P(s) - Q(s)}{N} \right| + \left| \frac{Q(s)}{N} - Q(x,s) \right| \right) 
= \frac{1}{2} \sum_{x,s} N \cdot \left| \frac{P(s) - Q(s)}{N} \right| + \frac{1}{2} \sum_{x,s} \left| \frac{Q(s)}{N} - Q(x,s) \right| 
= \Delta(\Sigma_{i-1}, \Gamma_{i-1}) + \Delta((Y_{i}, \Gamma_{i-1}), (X_{i}, \Gamma_{i-1})) .$$

Hence, starting with  $\Delta(\Sigma_q, \Gamma_q)$ , by repetitively applying (56) and using the fact that  $\Delta(\Sigma_0, \Gamma_0) = 0$ , we conclude the proof.

Next, we move to upper bound  $\Delta((Y_i, \sigma_{i-1}(A(Y))), (X_i, \sigma_{i-1}(A(Y))))$  for any i. Note that we can find a deterministic function  $\mathcal{L}$  which outputs S bits such that

$$\Delta((Y_i, \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(Y))), (X_i, \sigma_{i-1}(\mathcal{A}(Y))))) \leq \Delta((Y_i, \mathcal{L}(\Pi)), (X_i, \mathcal{L}(\Pi))).$$

We use  $\Pi_z$  to denote the distribution of  $\Pi$  conditioned on  $\mathcal{L}(\Pi) = z$ , and we always use  $\mathbf{R} \leftarrow \mathsf{Samp}(\mathsf{rd})$  to denote the sampled points from  $\mathsf{Samp}$  given the uniform randomness  $\mathsf{rd}$ . Then, we have

$$\begin{split} & \Delta((Y_i,\mathcal{L}(\Pi)),\; (X_i,\mathcal{L}(\Pi))) \\ &= \mathbf{E}_z\left[\Delta((Y_i,\mathcal{L}(\Pi)=z),\; (X_i,\mathcal{L}(\Pi)=z))\right] \\ &= \mathbf{E}_z\left[\Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}_i^{\{1\}}],\mathsf{sd}_i),\ldots,\mathsf{Ext}(\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}_i^{\{B\}}],\mathsf{sd}_i),\mathsf{sd}_i,\mathsf{rd}_i),\; (U_{b\ell},\mathsf{sd}_i,\mathsf{rd}_i))\right]\;. \end{split}$$

We let  $S_z = \log N! - \mathsf{H}_\infty(\Pi_z)$  be the min-entropy deficiency of  $\Pi_z$ . Before we continue proving the upper bound, we need the following lemma.

<span id="page-43-1"></span>**Lemma 12.** For any  $z \in \{0,1\}^S$ , for  $\Pi_z$  with min-entropy deficiency  $S_z$ , it holds that

$$\Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\varPi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\varPi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),\ (U_\ell,\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\varPi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]))\leqslant \frac{3}{N^c}+\mathbb{I}(S_z>2S+cn)\ .$$

*Proof.* By picking  $\gamma = N^{-c}$ ,  $P = (S + \log 1/\gamma)B = (S + cn)B < N/8$  and applying the decomposition lemma for random permutation (Lemma 8), it holds that

$$\begin{split} &\Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),\;(U_\ell,\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]))\\ \leqslant &\sum_t \alpha_t \Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\varLambda_{z,t}[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\varLambda_{z,t}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),(U_\ell,\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\varLambda_{z,t}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}])) + \gamma\;, \end{split}$$

{44}------------------------------------------------

where  $\gamma + \sum_{t} \alpha_t = 1$ .

We next consider a single  $(P, 1 - \delta_z)$ -dense permutation variable  $\Lambda$  and derive an upper bound for

$$\Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),\;(U_{\ell},\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]))\;,$$

where  $\delta_z = \frac{S_z + \log 1/\gamma}{P \log(N/e)}$ . Since the sampler outputs d(n) points and our scheme partitions the function F into  $2^{\lceil d(n) \rceil}$  parts, we can define the collection of functions  $\{f_1, ..., f_d\}$  as, for any  $1 \le i \le d$ ,

$$f_i(x) = \begin{cases} 1 & \text{if } \Lambda((i-1)||(x+j-1)) \text{ is fixed} \\ 0 & o.w. \end{cases}$$

Notice that  $2^{\lceil \log d(n) \rceil - 1} \leq d(n)$ , it immediately follows that

$$\sum_{i=1}^{d} \frac{1}{d} \cdot \mathbf{E} f_i = \sum_{i=1}^{d} \frac{1}{d} \cdot \frac{\sum_{t=0}^{2^{n-\lceil \log d \rceil} - 1} f_i(t)}{2^{n-\lceil \log d \rceil}} \leqslant \frac{P}{N/2} = \frac{2P}{N} .$$

Now, given the choice of parameters we have picked for the strong oblivious sampler, following Definition 3 and Lemma 9, it holds that

$$\Pr\left[\mathbf{R} = (R_1, ..., R_d) \xleftarrow{\$} \mathsf{Samp}(U_r) : \left| \frac{1}{d} \sum_{i=1}^d (f_i(R_i) - \mathbf{E}f_i) \right| \leqslant \frac{1}{4} \right] \geqslant 1 - 2^{-cn} \ .$$

We let  $t = \sum_{i=1}^{d} f_i(R_i)$ . Hence, t denotes the number of  $R_i + j - 1$  that hits at fixed coordinates. Then given we have assumed that  $P/N \leq 1/8$ , with probability at least  $1 - 2^{-cn}$ , we have  $t \leq d(n)/2$ .

Here, we say the event bad happens if, for the sampled  $\mathbf{R} = (R_1, ..., R_d) \leftarrow \mathsf{Samp}(U_r)$ , it holds that  $\left|\frac{1}{d}\sum_{i=1}^d (f_i(R_i) - \mathbf{E}f_i)\right| > \frac{1}{4}$ . Hence, it is straightforward that  $\mathsf{Pr}[\mathsf{bad}] \leqslant 2^{-cn}$ .

Now, we estimate the min-entropy of  $\mathsf{H}_\infty(\Lambda(\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}})|\Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}])$  for any  $\boldsymbol{r}$  outputted by  $\mathsf{Samp}(U_r)$  conditioned on the bad not happening. Suppose that t coordinates in  $\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}}$  hit at fixing points, and  $t_0$  coordinates in  $\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}$  hit at fixing coordinates, given that  $\Lambda$  is a  $(P, 1-\delta)$ -dense permutation variable, by union bound it holds that

$$\begin{split} &\sum_{V \in [N]^{(j-1) \cdot d}} \max_{v \in [N]^d} \Pr\left[ \Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j\}}] = V \parallel v \right] \\ &\leqslant (N-P) \frac{(j-1) \cdot d - t_0}{\cdot} \cdot \left( (N-P) \frac{j \cdot d - t - t_0}{\cdot} \right)^{-(1-\delta)} \\ &= \left( (N-P) \frac{(j-1) \cdot d - t_0}{\cdot} \right)^{\delta} \cdot \left( (N-P-(j-1) \cdot d + t_0) \frac{d - t}{\cdot} \right)^{-(1-\delta)} \end{split}$$

{45}------------------------------------------------

We recall that  $a^{\underline{b}} = a(a-1)\cdots(a-b+1)$ . Further, by  $a^{\underline{b}} \leq a^b$ , we have

$$\begin{split} & \sum_{V \in [N]^{(j-1) \cdot d}} \max_{v \in [N]^d} \Pr\left[ A \big[ r^{\{1:j\}} \big] = V \parallel v \right] \\ & \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j-1) \cdot d - \delta t_0} \cdot \left( (N-P-(j-1) \cdot d + t_0) \frac{d-t}{n} \right)^{-(1-\delta)} \\ & \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j-1) \cdot d - \delta t_0 - (1-\delta)(d-t)} \cdot \left( \prod_{q=0}^{d-t-1} \frac{N-P-(j-1) \cdot d + t_0 - q}{N-P} \right)^{-(1-\delta)} \\ & \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j-1) \cdot d - (1-\delta)(d-t)} \cdot \prod_{q=0}^{d-t-1} \left( \frac{N-P}{N-P-(j-1) \cdot d + t_0 - q} \right)^{1-\delta} \\ & \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j \cdot d - t) - (d-t)} \cdot \prod_{q=0}^{d-t-1} \left( \frac{N-P}{N-P-(j-1) \cdot d - q} \right)^{1-\delta} \; . \end{split}$$

Note that our choice of P satisfies  $P/N \le 1/8$ , and our upper bound of B satisfies  $B \le \frac{N}{8d}$ . It holds that  $P+B\cdot d \le N/4 < N/2$ . Then, for any  $0 \le q \le d-t-1$  and any  $1 \le j \le B$ , it holds that

$$\frac{N-P}{N-P-(j-1)d-q} \leqslant \frac{N-P}{N-P-Bd} \leqslant \frac{N-P}{N/2} \leqslant 2 \ .$$

Hence, we arrive at the following estimation of  $2^{-\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\Lambda(\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}})|\Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}])}$ :

$$\begin{split} \sum_{V \in [N]^{d(j-1)}} \max_{v \in [N]^d} \Pr \left[ \Lambda \big[ \boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j\}} \big] &= V \parallel v \right] \leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j \cdot d-t) - (d-t)} \cdot 2^{(1-\delta)(d-t)} \\ &\leqslant (N-P)^{\delta(j \cdot d-t)} \cdot \left(\frac{4}{N}\right)^{d-t} \\ &\leqslant N^{\delta B \cdot d} \cdot \left(\frac{4}{N}\right)^{d-t} \leqslant N^{\delta B \cdot d} \cdot \left(\frac{4}{N}\right)^{d/2} \;. \end{split}$$

The final step is due to  $t \leq d(n)/2$ . Then, by plugging in  $\delta = \delta_z = \frac{S_z + \log 1/\gamma}{P \log(N/e)}$ ,  $\gamma = \frac{1}{N^c}$  and  $P = (S + \log 1/\gamma)B = (S + cn)B$ , given a sufficiently large  $N = 2^n$  such that  $\frac{\log N}{\log N/e} \leq 2$ , we have

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\varLambda(\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}})|\varLambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) \geqslant &-\log\left(N^{\frac{(S_z + \log 1/\gamma)B \cdot d(n)}{P\log(N/e)}} \cdot (4/N)^{d(n)/2}\right) \\ \geqslant &d(n)\left(\frac{n}{2} - 1 - \frac{2(S_z + \log 1/\gamma)B}{P}\right) \\ &= d(n)\left(\frac{n}{2} - 1 - \frac{2(S_z + cn)}{S + cn}\right) \;. \end{split}$$

Note that the extractor Ext requires conditional min-entropy to be at least  $\frac{d(n) \cdot n}{3} + cn$ . Otherwise we apply the trivial upper bound  $\Delta \leq 1$  to the extracted distribution. We use the indicator function

{46}------------------------------------------------

 $\mathbb{I}\left[\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\varLambda(\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}})|\varLambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) < \frac{d(n)\cdot n}{3} + cn\right] \text{ to denote if the min-entropy is insufficient. Hence, we have}$   $\mathbb{I}\left[\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\varLambda(\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}})|\varLambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) < \frac{d(n)\cdot n}{3} + cn\right]$   $\leqslant \mathbb{I}\left[d(n)\left(\frac{n}{2} - 1 - \frac{2(S_z + cn)}{S + cn}\right) < \frac{d(n)\cdot n}{3} + cn\right]$   $= \mathbb{I}\left[\frac{2(S_z + cn)}{S + cn} > \frac{n}{6} - 1 - \frac{cn}{d(n)}\right].$ 

Since for any sampler, the lower bound on the number of samples

$$d(n) = \Omega\left(\frac{1}{\varepsilon^2}\log\frac{1}{\eta(n)}\right) = \Omega(n)$$

always holds [12]. Then, for any sufficiently large n, it follows that

$$\mathbb{I}\left[\mathsf{H}_{\infty}(\Lambda(\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}})|\Lambda[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]) < \frac{d(n)\cdot n}{3} + cn\right] \leqslant \mathbb{I}\left[\frac{2(S_z + cn)}{S + cn} > \frac{n}{6} - O(1)\right]$$

$$\leqslant \mathbb{I}\left[\frac{2(S_z + cn)}{S + cn} > 4\right] = \mathbb{I}\left[S_z > 2S + cn\right].$$

We thus obtain the following upper bound of statistical distance for  $\Lambda$ :

$$\begin{split} &\Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),\;(U_{\ell},\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]))\\ &= \mathbf{E}_{\mathsf{rd} \overset{\$}{\leftarrow} U_r,\boldsymbol{r} \leftarrow \mathsf{Samp}(\mathsf{rd})} \left[ \Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),\;(U_{\ell},\mathsf{sd},\boldsymbol{\Lambda}[\boldsymbol{r}^{\{1:j-1\}}])) \right] \\ &\leqslant \eta(n) + \mathbb{I}\left[S_z > 2S + cn\right] + \frac{1}{N^c} \leqslant \frac{2}{N^c} + \mathbb{I}\left[S_z > 2S + cn\right]\;. \end{split}$$

Next we combine the decomposed  $(P, 1 - \delta_z)$ -dense variable  $\Gamma$ s back to  $\Pi_z$ , which is  $\Pi$  conditioned on  $\mathcal{L}(\Pi) = z$ , we have

$$\begin{split} & \Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),\;(U_\ell,\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}])) \\ & \leqslant \gamma + \sum_t \alpha_t \Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\Lambda_{z,t}[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Lambda_{z,t}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),\;(U_\ell,\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Lambda_{z,t}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}])) \\ & \leqslant \frac{1}{N^c} + \frac{2}{N^c} + \mathbb{I}[S_z > 2S + cn] = \frac{3}{N^c} + \mathbb{I}[S_z > 2S + cn]\;, \end{split}$$

which concludes the proof of lemma.

Note that for any  $z \in \{0,1\}^S$ , it holds that  $\Pr[\mathcal{L}(\Pi) = z] = 2^{-S_z}$ . Hence, we can obtain the following upper bound:

<span id="page-46-0"></span>
$$\begin{split} & \Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\Pi[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Pi[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}],\mathcal{L}(\Pi)),\;(U_{\ell},\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Pi[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}],\mathcal{L}(\Pi))) \\ &= \mathbf{E}_{z\in\{0,1\}^S} \left[ \Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}]),\;(U_{\ell},\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\Pi_z[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}])) \right] \\ &\leqslant \mathbf{E}_{z\in\{0,1\}^S} \left[ \frac{3}{N^c} + \mathbb{I}(S_z > 2S + cn) \right] = \frac{3}{N^c} + \mathbf{E}_{z\in\{0,1\}^S} [\mathbb{I}(S_z > 2S + cn)] \\ &= \frac{3}{N^c} + \sum_{z\in\{0,1\}^S} 2^{-S_z} \cdot \mathbb{I}[S_z > 2S + cn] \leqslant \frac{3}{N^c} + 2^S \cdot 2^{-2S - cn} \leqslant \frac{4}{N^c} \;. \end{split}$$

Finally, we need the following proposition.

{47}------------------------------------------------

**Proposition 6.** For any random variable X, Y and any (possibly random) function f,

$$\Delta(f(X), f(Y)) \leq \Delta(X, Y)$$
.

For each single query, by the triangle inequality and applying Proposition 6 to Lemma 12, we arrive at

$$\begin{split} &\Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1\}}],\mathsf{sd}),...,\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{B\}}]),\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\mathcal{L}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}))\;,\;(U_{B\cdot\ell},\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\mathcal{L}(\boldsymbol{\varPi})))\\ &\leqslant \sum_{j=1}^{B} \Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1\}}],\mathsf{sd}),...,\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd})),U_{(B-j)\ell},\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\mathcal{L}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}))\;,\\ &\qquad \qquad (\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1\}}],\mathsf{sd}),...,\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{j-1\}}]),\mathsf{sd}),U_{(B-j+1)\ell},\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\mathcal{L}(\boldsymbol{\varPi})))\\ &\leqslant \sum_{j=1}^{B} \Delta((\mathsf{Ext}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{j\}}],\mathsf{sd}),\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}],\mathcal{L}(\boldsymbol{\varPi}))\;,\;(U_{\ell},\mathsf{sd},\mathsf{rd},\boldsymbol{\varPi}[\mathbf{R}^{\{1:j-1\}}],\mathcal{L}(\boldsymbol{\varPi})))\\ &\leqslant B\cdot\frac{4}{N^{c}} = \frac{4B}{N^{c}}\;. \end{split}$$

Note that the upper bound applies to all queries. Then, by applying the upper bound to Lemma 11 we conclude the proof.

# <span id="page-47-0"></span>D Previous Results on List Decodability of k-XOR Codes

In this section, we show how approximate list-decoding bound for k-XOR code by [36] can be used to derive an inferior result for the k-XOR construction, promising security upto  $q = (N/S)^{k/4}$  instead of  $q = (N/S)^{k/2}$ . We first recall the *approximate* list-decoding bound for k-XOR code of [36].

Theorem 5 (Approximate List-Decoding of k-XOR Code [36]). Let  $0 < \delta < \varepsilon < 1$  and  $t = (\varepsilon^2 - \delta^k)^{-1}$ . The k-XOR code is  $(\frac{1}{2} - \delta/2)$ -approximate  $(\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2, t)$ -list decodable, i.e. for any  $z \in \{0, 1\}^{N^k}$ , there exists t code words,  $x_1, \ldots, x_t$ , such that for any  $x \in \{0, 1\}^N$ : if  $\mathsf{hw}(\mathsf{k-XOR}(x) \oplus z) \leq (\frac{1}{2} - \varepsilon/2)N^k$  then there exists  $i \in [t]$  such that  $\mathsf{hw}(x \oplus x_i) \leq (\frac{1}{2} - \delta/2)N$ .

We show that the above approximate list-decoding bound can be translated into a bound on the list of normal list-decoding by simply bounding the size of hamming balls of radius  $\delta N$ . Before doing so, we shall need the following two results regarding the binary entropy function H.

**Proposition 7.** Let H be the binary entropy function. Let r, N be positive integers with  $r \leq N/2$ . Then, the size of hamming ball of radius r inside  $\{0,1\}^N$ , i.e  $|\mathcal{B}(z;r)|$  for any  $z \in \{0,1\}^N$ , is bounded above by  $2^{N \cdot \mathsf{H}(r/N)}$ .

The above result is well-known and we omit the proof here. The next proposition can be derived easily from the series expansion of H around 1/2.

<span id="page-47-1"></span>**Proposition 8.** Let H be the binary entropy function and suppose  $0 \le x \le \frac{1}{2}$ . Then,

$$\mathsf{H}\left(\frac{1}{2} - x\right) \leqslant 1 - 2 \cdot x^2 \; .$$

{48}------------------------------------------------

Corollary 4. Let 0 ă ε ă 1. The k-XOR code is p 1 <sup>2</sup> ´ ε{2, 2 N´ε <sup>4</sup>{k<sup>N</sup> {ε 2 q list-decodable, i.e. for any z P t0, 1u N<sup>k</sup> , there are at most 2 N´ε 4{N {ε 2 codewords that are within hamming distance p1´ε{2qN<sup>k</sup> of z.

Proof. Fix any ε such that 0 ă ε ă 1 and some z P t0, 1u N<sup>k</sup> . We set

$$\delta = \left(\frac{\varepsilon^2}{2}\right)^{1/k} \ . \tag{57}$$

Hence,

$$t = \frac{1}{\varepsilon^2 - \delta^k} = 2 \cdot \varepsilon^{-2} \ . \tag{58}$$

Note that a hamming ball of radius p 1 <sup>2</sup> ´ δ{2qN around any x P t0, 1u <sup>N</sup> has size at most

$$2^{N\cdot\mathsf{H}(\frac{1}{2}-\delta/2)}\leqslant 2^{N\cdot(1-\delta^2/2)}\;,$$

Hence, there are at most

$$2 \cdot 2^{N(1-\delta^2/2)}/\varepsilon^2 \leqslant 2 \cdot 2^{N-\varepsilon^{4/k}N/8}/\varepsilon^2$$

codewords within radius <sup>1</sup> <sup>2</sup> ´ ε{2 of z. [\

Next, we briefly discuss how the above can be applied to the k-XOR construction. We follow the same proof strategy as before, plugging in the above list-decoding bound (Corollary [4\)](#page-47-1) instead of Lemma [6.](#page-20-1)

<span id="page-48-0"></span>Lemma 13. Let L : t0, 1u <sup>N</sup> Ñ t0, 1u S be any function. Then, for F \$Ð t0, 1u <sup>N</sup> , and R1, . . . , R<sup>k</sup> \$Ð rNs,

Guess
$$(F[R_1] \oplus \cdots \oplus F[R_k] \mid \mathcal{L}(F), R_1, \dots, R_k) \leq 2 \cdot \left(\frac{8(S+2nk)}{N}\right)^{k/4}$$
 (59)

Proof. We follow the same proof setup as in the proof of Lemma [13.](#page-48-0) At [\(23\)](#page-22-1), we instead plug-in Corollary [4](#page-47-1) to derive

$$\mathbf{E}\left[Q(Z)\right] \leqslant \varepsilon + 2^{S} \cdot 2^{-\varepsilon^{4/k}N/8} \cdot \varepsilon^{-2} . \tag{60}$$

[\

Next, we set

$$\varepsilon = \left(\frac{8(S+2nk)}{N}\right)^{k/4} .$$

Note that ε ´<sup>2</sup> ď Nk{<sup>2</sup> . Hence,

$$\mathbf{E}\left[Q(Z)\right] \leqslant \varepsilon + 2^{-2nk} \cdot \varepsilon^{-2} \leqslant \varepsilon + N^{-2k} \cdot N^{-k/2} \leqslant 2\varepsilon . \tag{61}$$

Using the above lemma for k-XOR construction gives a security guarantee for upto q " pN{Sq k{4 queries.

{49}------------------------------------------------

**Theorem 6.** Let  $F: F.Ks \times \{0,1\}^n \to \{0,1\}^m$  be a function family. Let SE = Xor[F,k] be the k-XOR encryption scheme for some positive integer k. Let  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$  be an S-bounded INDR-adversary against SE that makes at most q queries to Enc. Then, an S-bounded PRF-adversary  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  can be constructed such that

$$\mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{SE}}^{\mathsf{indr}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{indr}}) \leqslant \mathsf{Adv}_{\mathsf{F}}^{\mathsf{prf}}(\mathcal{A}_{\mathsf{prf}}) + 2mq \cdot \left(\frac{8(S+2nk)}{N}\right)^{k/4} \ . \tag{62}$$

Moreover,  $\mathcal{A}_{prf}$  makes at most  $q \cdot k$  queries to its FN oracle and has running time about that of  $\mathcal{A}_{indr}$ .