

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Improved Issuer Hiding for BBS-based Anonymous Credentials

Nesrine Kaaniche<sup>2</sup> , Seyni Kane<sup>1</sup>,<sup>2</sup> , Maryline Laurent<sup>2</sup> , and Jacques Traoré<sup>1</sup>

<sup>1</sup> Orange Innovation, Applied Crypto Group 14000 Caen, France. {seyni.kane, jacques.traore}@orange.com <sup>2</sup> SAMOVAR, Télécom SudParis, Institut Polytechnique de Paris, France. {kaaniche.nesrine, maryline.laurent}@telecom-sudparis.eu

Abstract. Attribute-based anonymous credential systems often fail to hide the issuer's identity. Recent attempts to address this issue either suffer from efficiency problems or contain critical policy vulnerabilities (where a policy is defined as the set of issuers that relying parties are willing to accept). More precisely, we present several attacks that exploit these vulnerabilities. These attacks allow a malicious user to collaborate with a single authorized issuer and forge credentials for arbitrary attributes. This enables the malicious user to usurp the powers of any trusted issuer. To address these security and architectural gaps, we propose a novel BBS-based issuer-hiding credential system that adopts a signed-policy approach.

Our construction resolves several open challenges: (1) it is proven secure in the Algebraic Group Model (AGM) rather than the Generic Group Model (GGM), (2) it eliminates the requirement for secret policy keys, allowing verification to be performed without secret values; and (3) it enables policy generation to be delegated to a trusted certification authority rather than requiring each relying party to maintain individual policy keys. Furthermore, we introduce the first pairing-free variant of an issuerhiding anonymous credential based on algebraic MACs.

The implementation results and formal security proofs confirm that our scheme achieves unforgeability and everlasting issuer-hiding anonymity and establishes our protocol as a practical, secure solution for privacypreserving credential systems that is suitable for real-world deployment.

Keywords: BBS Signatures · Privacy-preserving Authentication · Attributebased Anonymous Credentials · Issuer-Hiding · Selective Disclosure

## <span id="page-0-0"></span>1 Introduction

Anonymous credentials (ACs) are a type of cryptographic mechanism that enables users to prove their identity and/or statements about their attributes without revealing unnecessary information. Such a system usually involves three entities: a user seeking to authenticate or prove statements to a relying party (RP); an issuer providing the user with credentials; and an RP accepting or rejecting the

{1}------------------------------------------------

credentials presented by the user.

The concept of anonymous credentials was first introduced by David Chaum in the 1980s [\[17,](#page-30-0) [18\]](#page-30-1). Since then, it has evolved into a rich research domain with numerous constructions and approaches [\[9,](#page-29-0) [11,](#page-29-1) [12,](#page-29-2) [13,](#page-30-2) [1,](#page-29-3) [2,](#page-29-4) [38,](#page-31-0) [28,](#page-31-1) [39,](#page-31-2) [20\]](#page-30-3). Despite providing robust user privacy, most traditional AC solutions fail to hide the issuer's identity. This lack of issuer anonymity can lead to critical metadata leakage; for instance, a credential issued by a specific city administration may indirectly expose a user's place of residence.

Recently, several solutions, known as issuer hiding AC, have been proposed to mitigate this problem. However, these solutions are not based on BBS signatures, which have recently gained traction due to their compatibility with zero-knowledge proofs and ongoing standardization efforts (cf. IETF draft [\[33\]](#page-31-3)).

Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4) recently introduced the first BBS-based issuer-hiding anonymous credential, marking a significant advancement, but introducing new vulnerabilities. Using the same approach as Sanders and Traoré [\[40\]](#page-31-5) to hide the credential issuer among a set of authorized issuers (based on what is called a Policy)[3](#page-1-0) , they demonstrated how to achieve issuer hiding, resulting in an efficient construction that satisfies the everlasting issuer-hiding anonymity requirement and is unforgeable in the generic group model (GGM). Their solution can be integrated into existing standards and offers several efficiency advantages over prior work. Most importantly, they identified open questions for future research, aimed at designing more efficient and secure issuer-hiding credentials. These include: (1) constructing a BBS-based issuer-hiding anonymous credential that is proven secure in the Algebraic Group Model (AGM), and (2) removing the requirement for policy keys at all while still maintaining acceptable efficiency or at least reducing the size of policy keys to a constant.

Very recently, Flamini et al. [\[27\]](#page-30-4) proposed three attractive BBS-based issuerhiding AC constructions. Unfortunately, the first two constructions are inefficient, unlike the third. However, as explained in the Appendix (Section [A.2\)](#page-3-0), the latter construction has a critical vulnerability that makes it unsuitable for real-world deployment.

In this work, our aim is to improve issuer-hiding for BBS-based credentials by first presenting several attack scenarios on the latest constructions, specifically those by Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4) and Flamini et al. [\[27\]](#page-30-4), as well as the issuer-hiding ACs proposed by Sanders and Traoré [\[40\]](#page-31-5) and Bosk et al. [\[8\]](#page-29-5). Additionally, we highlight certain limitations of their approach. For example, in the case of [\[32\]](#page-31-4), and [\[40\]](#page-31-5), a presentation can only be verified by the designated verifier or RP, turning verification into a secret key operation. This restriction means that the verification policy key, used to verify whether a potential issuer's public key

<span id="page-1-0"></span><sup>3</sup> In the simplest case, the policy only contains the trusted issuer keys. In different approaches, policies may have an associated public key, which is required for the generation and verification of issuer-hiding presentations, and sometimes also a secret counterpart, which is required in addition to the public policy key to verify issuerhiding presentations. In several schemes, the public policy key is used to certify, using a suitable signature scheme, the trusted issuer keys.

{2}------------------------------------------------

belongs or not to the policy, cannot be generated by a trusted third party typically a certification authority.

To address these issues, we provide answers to some of the open questions raised by Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4). Specifically, we introduce a new BBS-based issuerhiding credential system which is (1) proven secure in the Algebraic Group Model (AGM), rather than the Generic Group Model (GGM). Our construction also (2) allows the verification policy key to be generated by a certification authority, thereby removing the need to define policy keys for each RP.

### 1.1 Related Works

Anonymous credential systems have long been studied as a means to provide privacy-preserving authentication. A crucial property in this context is issuer hiding, which ensures that the RP cannot infer the credential issuer identity. Early constructions of anonymous credentials, such as those based on Camenisch–Lysyanskaya signatures [\[11,](#page-29-1) [12,](#page-29-2) [13\]](#page-30-2), primarily focused on user privacy and selective disclosure, however issuer hiding was not considered a core requirement. More recent works [\[5,](#page-29-6) [6,](#page-29-7) [8,](#page-29-5) [20,](#page-30-3) [24,](#page-30-5) [35,](#page-31-6) [40\]](#page-31-5) have introduced formal definitions and practical realizations of the issuer hiding property.

Early approaches to issuer hiding relied on inefficient OR-proofs [\[21\]](#page-30-6), which allow a user to prove possession of a valid credential from one of several authorized issuers without revealing which one. Initial constructions [\[5,](#page-29-6) [20\]](#page-30-3) produced proofs whose size was linear in the number of issuers |P|, while later work [\[24\]](#page-30-5) reduced this to logarithmic complexity.

Bobolz et al. [\[6\]](#page-29-7) formalized issuer hiding in the context of anonymous credentials and proposed a framework based on a signed policy. In this approach, the RP selects a set of authorized public keys and signs each of them using an UF-CMA secure signature scheme, thereby basing the security of the verification policy scheme on the UF-CMA security of the underlying signature scheme. This design simplifies the user's task. Instead of proving possession of a credential for every possible issuer, the user only needs to demonstrate that the credential was issued by one of the keys listed in the policy. This can be achieved by proving knowledge of a signature on their issuer's public key. This results in presentation proofs of constant size. Bobolz et al. also provided a generic construction and proved the security of this generic construction. Although proving knowledge of both a credential and a signature on a hidden issuer key increases proof complexity, their approach remains relatively simple, relies on standard cryptographic primitives, and the security proofs are based on more standard models and assumptions.

Other schemes achieve efficiency by relaxing privacy guarantees. For example, Bosk et al. [\[8\]](#page-29-5) require the disclosure of all attributes, thereby compromising attribute privacy to achieve issuer hiding. One of the most recent advances by Sanders and Traoré [\[40\]](#page-31-5) achieves efficient issuer-hiding with constant-size proofs using algebraic techniques rather than relying on generic zero-knowledge proofs. Their scheme leverages Pointcheval–Sanders (PS) signatures [\[38\]](#page-31-0), a publicly verifiable variant of keyed-verification credentials [\[16\]](#page-30-7). In this design, the RP generates a private policy verification key sk<sup>P</sup> and a public policy key pk<sup>P</sup> . A

{3}------------------------------------------------

#### 4 Kaaniche et al.

user holding a credential from an issuer within the policy can produce a proof using pk<sup>P</sup> , which can be verified using sk<sup>P</sup> . The verification of these presentations requires the knowledge of the secret policy key sk<sup>P</sup> , which is only held by the RP. This requirement for a secret verification key represents a significant constraint also present in the scheme proposed by Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4).

Indeed, Katz and Sefranek demonstrated how to achieve issuer hiding for BBSbased anonymous credentials [\[32\]](#page-31-4), thereby introducing the first issuer-hiding BBS anonymous credential scheme. They adapted the Sanders and Traoré approach to BBS signatures, resulting in constant-size presentations and shorter public keys than in this previous work. The scheme also provides everlasting issuer-hiding anonymity and is proven unforgeable in the generic group model.

Very recently, Flamini et al. [\[27\]](#page-30-4) introduced three BBS-based issuer-hiding AC constructions, called respectively IHBBS0, IHBBSGroth and IHBBS1. Unfortunately, IHBBS<sup>0</sup> is inefficient as the size of the presentations is linear in the number of authorized issuers (the size of the policy). Their second scheme uses Groth's signature scheme [\[31\]](#page-31-7) to certify the public keys of authorized issuers and BBS for the issuance of the credentials. Unfortunately, using Groth's signature scheme makes IHBBSGroth quite inefficient, as generating and verifying issuerhiding presentations involves costly pairing computations. Furthermore, using a non-standard signature scheme (Groth's scheme) for the overall credential scheme adds complexity and delays any real-world deployment requiring proper standardization, such as the forthcoming European digital identity wallet (EUDIW) [\[25\]](#page-30-8). Additionally, the security proof of IHBBSGroth relies on the GGM.

Their third construction, IHBBS1, achieves compact presentations, i.e., not scaling in the number of issuers, does not involve costly computations, and is proven secure in the AGM.

Compared to earlier issuer-hiding schemes, IHBBS<sup>1</sup> [\[27\]](#page-30-4), and Katz and Sefranek's scheme [\[32\]](#page-31-4) are highly efficient. Using BBS signatures makes them compatible with existing standardization efforts, facilitating integration into current standards and promoting their widespread adoption in the near future. However, a key limitation of these solutions is that their verification policy mechanism does not rely on a generic approach. This leaves them vulnerable to several attacks related to their policy verification mechanisms. These attacks apply to IHBBS<sup>1</sup> [\[27\]](#page-30-4) and the scheme of Bosk et al., since both employ a similar technique to verify whether a public key belongs to the policy. Similarly, these attacks also apply to the schemes by Katz and Sefranek, and by Sanders and Traoré, as they both utilize the same kind of policy verification mechanism. A further limitation of these four schemes is that they are all pairing-based and do not address how to achieve a pairing-free, issuer-hiding, BBS-like credential system.

## <span id="page-3-0"></span>1.2 Our Contributions

We propose a novel issuer-hiding BBS-based credential scheme that addresses the open questions raised by Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4). Our construction eliminates the requirement for secret policy keys and provides a robust realization of issuerhiding ACs proven secure in the Algebraic Group Model (AGM). Additionally, we

{4}------------------------------------------------

identify several attacks and structural limitations in previous BBS-based designs, specifically demonstrating how existing policy verification mechanisms can be bypassed.

We summarize our contributions as follows:

- We begin by presenting two attack scenarios on the issuer-hiding anonymous credential scheme proposed by Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4), which also apply to the construction developed by Sanders and Traoré [\[40\]](#page-31-5). We then highlight the key limitations of these approaches. We additionally proposed attacks targeting the issuer-hiding schemes by Bosk et al. [\[8\]](#page-29-5), and the third construction (IHBBS1) in [\[27\]](#page-30-4) by Flamini et al.
- We address the two main open questions raised in [\[32\]](#page-31-4): (1) constructing a BBS-based issuer-hiding anonymous credential that is proven secure in the Algebraic Group Model (AGM), and (2) removing the need for secret policy keys entirely, while maintaining acceptable efficiency, or at least reducing their size. To this end, we introduce a new BBS-based issuer-hiding credential system, proven secure in the AGM, that adopts the signed-policy approach of [\[6\]](#page-29-7), while avoiding the limitations of prior work. This demonstrates the feasibility of achieving BBS-based IHAC with this approach, in contrast to what is stated in [\[32\]](#page-31-4).
  - Our construction enables the generation of policy to be delegated to a certification authority, removing the need for each RP to maintain its own policy keys. Furthermore, verification does not require knowledge of any secret values, thus eliminating any dependency on policy keys.
- We propose the first pairing-free issuer-hiding anonymous credential scheme by presenting a pairing-free variant of our construction based on algebraic MACs and oblivious issuance of proofs. This feature is not addressed in the constructions of Flamini et al. [\[27\]](#page-30-4) and Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4).
- We also provide security proofs that our constructions achieve everlasting issuer-hiding anonymity and unforgeability in the AGM. This addresses another open question raised in [\[32\]](#page-31-4) by establishing that BBS-based issuerhiding ACs can be proven secure in the AGM.

We also provide a comparison between our scheme and that of Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4), and Flamini et al. [\[27\]](#page-30-4), demonstrating that our scheme is overall more efficient and secure, and uses a more standard approach, as it relies on an EUF-CMA secure digital signature to certify the public keys of the authorized issuers.

### 1.3 Technical Overview

In this section, we briefly recall the Katz and Sefranek [\[32\]](#page-31-4) BBS-based issuerhiding ACs (See Section [4.1](#page-17-0) for more details), and then we provide an overview of our scheme.

{5}------------------------------------------------

Katz and Sefranek BBS-based Issuer-Hiding ACs [32]. Their scheme (See Section 4.1 for more details) is based on BBS (See Section 2.6 for more details on BBS), where the public key of an issuer is defined as  $i\tilde{p}k = \tilde{g}^x$ . A credential on attributes  $\{m_i\}$  is formed by choosing a random exponent e and computing  $A = C_m^{\frac{1}{x+e}}$ , where  $C_m = h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m_i}$  and  $\{h_i\}_i$  are public random generators. The credential is  $\sigma = (A, e)$ .

Informally, to prove possession of a credential  $\sigma = (A, e)$  on attributes  $\{m_i\}$  (for simplicity, we assume that all attributes are disclosed) with respect to ipk, the user randomizes his credential with  $\bar{A}=A^r, \; \bar{B}=\bar{A}^{-e}C^r_m=\bar{A}^x, \; \text{and then sends } \bar{A}, \bar{B}$ along with a zero-knowledge (ZK) proof such that  $\bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-e}C_m^r$  for some  $e, r \in \mathbb{Z}_p$ . Verification checks whether  $\mathbf{e}(A, pk) = \mathbf{e}(B, \tilde{g})$  (We focus on the pairing-based check, and ignore verification of the ZK proof for simplicity). To incorporate the issuer hiding feature into their scheme, Katz and Sefranek use the Sanders and Traoré approach [40]. In this approach, each RP defines his policy, by selecting a set of authorized issuers  $\mathcal{P} = \{ipk_j\}_{j \in [\ell]}$ , and defining a secret policy key  $\operatorname{sk}_{\mathcal{P}} = (a, b) \iff \mathbb{Z}_p^{*2}$ , along with a public policy key  $\operatorname{pk}_{\mathcal{P}} = (\tilde{S} = \tilde{g}^a, \pi, \{\tilde{T}_j\}_{j \in [\ell]})$ , where  $\tilde{T}_j = (\tilde{g}^b \tilde{ipk}_j)^a, j \in [\ell]$ , and  $\pi$  is a proof that  $pk_{\mathcal{P}}$  was correctly computed. We assume now that a user wants to prove possession of a credential (A, e) on attributes  $\{m_i\}$  with respect to some key in a set  $\mathcal{P} = \{ipk_j\}_{i \in [\ell]}$  of  $\ell$  public keys, without disclosing which specific issuer in  $\mathcal{P}$  provided the credential. Let  $ipk_{j^*} \in \mathcal{P}$  be the public key for which the user's credential is valid. A natural idea is to replace  $ipk_{j^*}$  in the verification equation with the product of all the public keys  $P = \prod_i ipk_i$ . Since with this term the verification will not succeed, Katz and Sefranek instead use a randomized correction term  $\tilde{\sigma} = \tilde{S}^t \prod_{j \neq j'} \tilde{T}_j$ , with  $t \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ . To ensure that verification succeeds, the user must also adjust  $\bar{B}$ by computing it as  $\bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-e-t}C_m^r$ , so the RP using his secret key policy  $\mathrm{sk}_{\mathcal{P}}$  can check:

$$e(\bar{A}, \tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{-1}{a}} \tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b} P) = e(\bar{B}, \tilde{g}).$$

Intuitively, incorporating  $\tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{1}{a}}$  into the verification equation forces the user to construct  $\tilde{\sigma}$  using the provided values  $\tilde{S}$  and  $\{\tilde{T}_j\}$ , while multiplying by  $\tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b}$  forces the user to use exactly  $\ell-1$  of the  $\{\tilde{T}_j\}$  when constructing  $\tilde{\sigma}$ .

Attacks On Previous Issuer-Hiding Constructions. The attacks against the construction in [32] target the presentation policy: if one or more issuers collude with a malicious user, they can enable that user to obtain credentials for arbitrary attributes using self generated issuing keys. Consequently, the user effectively assumes the role of an authorized issuer. This allows the user to issue valid credentials under their own keys, even if those keys are not included in the authorized presentation policy.

For simplicity, we consider the case where a single issuer with secret key is $k_{j_0} = y_{j_0}$  and public key  $ip\tilde{k}_{j_0}$  colludes with the malicious user. To assist the user, the issuer only needs to send him a commitment  $ipk_{j_0} = \tilde{S}^{y_{j_0}} = \tilde{g}^{ay_{j_0}}$  on its secret

{6}------------------------------------------------

key. The user then generates a secret key sk =  $y \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , and computes a public key  $\tilde{pk} = \tilde{g}^y$ , and a value  $\tilde{pk} = \tilde{S}^{-y} = \tilde{g}^{-ay}$ . With the private key sk = y, the user can generate valid credentials on arbitrary attributes. The user chooses a random  $j' \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and computes:

$$\tilde{T}_{j'} = (\tilde{g}^b \tilde{ipk}_{j'})^a \tilde{ipk}_{j_0} \bar{pk} = (\tilde{g}^b \tilde{ipk}_{j'})^a \tilde{g}^{a(y_{j_0} - y)}$$

which implies:

$$\tilde{T}_{j'} = (\tilde{g}^b \tilde{ipk}_{j'} \tilde{ipk}_{j_0} \tilde{pk}^{-1})^a$$

Since the presentation policy definition is the same in both Sanders and Traoré [40] and Katz and Sefranek [32], this attack applies to both schemes.

For example, in the case of Katz and Sefranek, the user can compute  $\tilde{\sigma}=\tilde{S}^t\prod_{j\neq j_0}\tilde{T}_j=\tilde{g}^{ta}\tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)ba}\tilde{\mathrm{pk}}^{-a}\prod_{j\in [\ell]}\tilde{\mathrm{ipk}}^a_j$  and send his presentation vp with  $\tilde{\sigma}$  to the RP. The RP checks the validity by testing whether:

$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, \tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{-1}{a}} \tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b} \prod_{j \in [\ell]} \tilde{\mathrm{ipk}}_j) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{B}, \tilde{g})$$

Since we have  $\tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{-1}{a}}\tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b}\prod_{j\in[\ell]}\tilde{\mathrm{ipk}}_j=\tilde{\mathrm{pk}}\tilde{g}^{-t}$ , the presentation is accepted as valid by the RP, even though  $(\tilde{\mathrm{pk}})$  is not part of the presentation policy. We provide a more sophisticated attack against Katz and Sefranek's scheme [32] in the sequel.

The attacks against the issuer-hiding constructions proposed by Flamini et al. [27] and Bosk et al. [8] are described in more detail later in this document (see Section A).

Our Improved BBS-based Issuer-Hiding Credentials. We adopt the signed policy approach first introduced by Bobolz et al. [6]. In this approach, the RP selects a set of authorized public keys  $\mathcal{P}$  and signs each of them using a UF-CMA secure signature scheme. During the presentation, the user must prove the possession of a valid credential and demonstrate that the credential was issued by one of these authorized issuers. To achieve this, the user randomizes their credential, the issuer's public key, and the signature on that public key. Verification then involves checking that the credential is valid, and that the randomized public key and signature are verified correctly using the RP's public key.

Our construction supports two types of scenarios: either each RP generates its own policy by certifying a set of authorized issuer public keys  $\mathcal{P}$ , or a trusted certification authority generates the policy by certifying these keys. In both cases, we denote the certifying secret key as vsk = y, with the corresponding verification keys  $vpk = g^y \in \mathbb{G}_1$  and  $vpk = \tilde{g}^y \in \mathbb{G}_2$ . The issuer's public key is also represented in both groups as  $ipk = g^x \in \mathbb{G}_1$ , and  $ipk = \tilde{g}^x \in \mathbb{G}_2$ .

Our construction is based entirely on BBS signature: we rely on the BBS scheme both for credential issuance and for signing the set of authorized public keys  $(\mathcal{P})$ . For simplicity, we describe only the policy generation process, as the credential

{7}------------------------------------------------

generation follows the standard BBS procedure. For each public key  $(ipk_j, ipk_j) \in \mathcal{P}$ , the issuer provides a proof of knowledge of the corresponding secret key  $isk_j$ :

$$\pi_{\text{key}} = \text{PoK}\{\text{isk}_j : \text{ipk}_j = g^{\text{isk}_j} \land \tilde{\text{ipk}}_j = \tilde{g}^{\text{isk}_j}\}$$

The RP checks this proof and, if valid, issues a certificate  $\sigma_j = (A_j, e_j)$ , where  $A_j = (g_0 g^{i \text{sk}_j})^{\frac{1}{x+e_j}}$  and  $e_j \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ .

For the presentation phase, let us consider a user who wants to prove the possession of a credential (A,e) on attributes  $\{m_i\}$  with respect to some key  $ipk_{j^*}$  in a set  $\mathcal{P} = \{ipk_j\}_{j \in [\ell]}$ , without revealing which issuer issued the credential. The user selects random scalars  $t, r, r_1, r_2 \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , randomizes the issuer's public key as  $(ipk'_{j^*} = g^{ty_{j^*}}, ipk'_{j^*} = \tilde{g}^{ty_{j^*}})$ , where  $isk_j = y_{j^*}$ , and randomizes the corresponding certificate  $\sigma_{j^*} = (A_{j^*}, e_{j^*})$  by computing  $\bar{A}_{j^*} = A_{j^*}^{rt}$  and  $\bar{B}_{j^*} = g_0^{t'}ipk'_{j^*}{}^r\bar{A}_{j^*}^{-e_{j^*}} = \bar{A}_{j^*}^{x}$ , where t' = tr. Let  $l = r_1r_2$ ,  $\hat{t} = tl$ , and e' = te. The user then randomizes their credential (A, e) as  $\bar{A} = A^l$  and sets  $\bar{B} = C_m^{\hat{t}}\bar{A}^{-e'} = \bar{A}^{ty_{j^*}}$ , where  $C_m = h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m_i}$ . Next, the user computes two zero-knowledge proofs,  $\pi_{cert}$  and  $\pi_{validity}$ , to prove the possession of a valid credential issued by one of the authorized issuers. Specifically:

$$\pi_{\text{cert}} = \text{PoK}\{\alpha, \beta, \delta : \bar{B}_{j^*} = g_0^{\alpha} \text{ipk}_{j^*}^{\prime} \bar{A}_{j^*}^{-\delta} \wedge \alpha \neq 0\}, \text{ and}$$
  
$$\pi_{\text{validity}} = \text{PoK}\{\alpha, \beta, \gamma, \{\tau_i\}_{i \notin \mathcal{D}} : \bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-\alpha} \bar{D}^{\beta} \wedge h_0 \prod_{i \in \mathcal{D}} h_i^{\tau_i} = \bar{D}^{\gamma} \prod_{i \notin \mathcal{D}} h_i^{-\tau_i}\},$$

where  $\bar{D} = C_m^{r_2}$ . The user sends the verifiable presentation:

$$vp = (\{m\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, ipk'_{j^*}, \tilde{ipk}'_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}, \bar{B}, \bar{D}, \pi_{\text{cert}}, \pi_{\text{validity}}).$$

The RP checks the provided zero-knowledge proofs and the randomized keys and signatures:

$$\mathbf{e}(\mathrm{ipk}'_{j^*}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(g, \mathrm{i\tilde{p}k}'_{j^*}) \wedge \mathbf{e}(\bar{B}_{j^*}, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}_{j^*}, \mathrm{v\tilde{p}k}) \wedge \mathbf{e}(\bar{B}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, \mathrm{i\tilde{p}k}'_{j^*}).$$

We also propose a pairing-free variant of this construction, adopting the concept of server-aided anonymous credentials introduced by Desmoulins et al. [22] and formalized by Chairattana-Apirom et al. [15] (see Section 6 for more detail).

### 2 Preliminaries

#### <span id="page-7-0"></span>2.1 Notation

We introduce some notations used throughout this document. To state that x is chosen uniformly at random from the set S, we use one of the two following notations  $x \leftarrow S$  or  $x \in S$ . In addition,  $\overrightarrow{m}$  will denote the vector or list  $(m_1, m_2, \ldots, m_n)$ , also written as  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ .  $\lambda$  will denote the security parameter and  $1^{\lambda}$  will represent the security parameter in unary form. We use  $(p, \mathbb{G}_1, \mathbb{G}_2, g, \widetilde{g}, \mathbf{e}) \leftarrow S$  BGen $(1^{\lambda})$  to denote the output of a bilinear group generation

{8}------------------------------------------------

algorithm, BGen is a bilinear group generator that takes as input a security parameter  $1^{\lambda}$ , and outputs a description of a bilinear group  $(\mathbb{G}_1, \mathbb{G}_2, g, \tilde{g}, p)$ . Here,  $\mathbb{G}_1$  and  $\mathbb{G}_2$  are cyclic groups of prime order p, with respective generators g and  $\tilde{g}$ . All algorithms are probabilistic, unless otherwise indicated. By  $y \leftarrow \mathcal{A}(x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n)$ , we denote the action of running  $\mathcal{A}$  on inputs  $(x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n)$  and assigning the output to y. We write  $y \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}}(x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n)$  to indicate that  $\mathcal{A}$  is an algorithm, with oracle access to some algorithm or set of algorithms  $\mathcal{O}$ , that takes as inputs  $(x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n)$ , and assigns the output to y.

We use the term "Experiment" in the context of security definitions and proofs. An experiment will be denoted  $\mathbf{Exp}$ . An experiment  $\mathbf{Exp}$  in which an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  interacts with a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$  to break the security property prop of a scheme Schem is denoted by  $\mathbf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathrm{prop}}(1^{\lambda})$ .

We analyze the security of our constructions in the Algebraic Group Model (AGM) as defined by Fuchsbauer et al. [29]. In this model, adversaries are assumed to know the representation of any group element they output. Specifically, after receiving a list of group elements  $X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n$ , whenever the adversary returns a group element X, it must also provide a list of coefficients  $\alpha_1, \alpha_2, \ldots, \alpha_n$  such that  $X = \prod_i X_i^{\alpha_i}$ . Adversaries satisfying this property are referred to as algebraic.

## <span id="page-8-0"></span>2.2 Zero-Knowledge Proofs of Knowledge

A Zero-Knowledge Proof of Knowledge (ZKPK) [30] is an interactive protocol between a prover  $\mathcal{P}$  and a verifier  $\mathcal{V}$ , where the prover attempts to convince the verifier of the knowledge of some secrets verifying a given statement, without revealing any information about the said secrets. A ZKPK should satisfy three properties, namely (i) completeness (i.e. a valid prover should be able to convince an honest verifier with overwhelming probability), (ii) soundness (i.e. a malicious prover should be rejected with overwhelming probability), (ii) zero-knowledge (i.e. the proof reveals no information about the secret(s)). In our constructions, we use non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge (also referred to as signatures of knowledge, or SoK), which can be obtained through heuristic transformations such as the Fiat-Shamir method [26]. For simplicity, we abstract away the details of these ZK proofs, as they would distract from the main ideas presented in this work.

We use the Camenisch-Stadler notation [14], where, for example,  $\pi := \text{SoK}\{\alpha, \beta : y = g^{\alpha} \land z = g^{\beta}\}[m]$  denotes a signature of knowledge of secrets  $\alpha$ ,  $\beta$ , verifying the statement on the right side of the colon. The signature of knowledge itself is generated on the message m. If the message is empty, we use the following notation to denote this signature of knowledge:

$$\pi := \operatorname{PoK}\{\alpha, \beta : y = g^{\alpha} \land z = g^{\beta}\}.$$

In the Algebraic Group Model (AGM), one can use a h, as shown by Orrù in [37], to extract the secret values from a signature of knowledge produced by an adversary that outputs a valid proof. We will need this result in our proof of unforgeability.

{9}------------------------------------------------

#### 2.3 Oblivious Issuance of Proofs (OIP)

For our (pairing-free) BBS-based issuer-hiding anonymous credentials scheme, we will use a specific ZKPK, namely a proof of equality of discrete logarithms [19], denoted  $\pi_{\text{DLEQ}}$ , that can be requested anonymously and issued obliviously [36], i.e., in such a way that it cannot be linked back to the interaction that produced it:  $\pi_{\text{DLEQ}} := \text{PoK}\{\alpha : B = A^{\alpha} \wedge h = g^{\alpha}\}$ , where  $\alpha$  is the prover's secret, g and h are two public generators of a cyclic group  $\mathbb{G}$  and A and B are two generators of  $\mathbb{G}$  satisfying  $B = A^{\alpha}$  but which are unknown (blinded) to the prover.

More precisely, the proof will be issued in such a way that the prover will not be able to link  $(A, B, \pi_{\text{DLEQ}})$  to its respective issuance (obliviousness) and the verifier will not be able after the issuance of l such proofs, even in a concurrent manner, to forge, on its own, a new valid proof (one-more unforgeability). The resulting proof is transferable and can be verified non-interactively by anyone.

#### <span id="page-9-0"></span>2.4 Anonymous Credentials

In this section, we adopt the definitions presented in [32]. We begin by reviewing the formal definition of anonymous credentials before extending it to incorporate issuer-hiding in the following section. An anonymous credential scheme typically consists of four main algorithms. The key generation algorithm, IkeyGen, is executed by an issuer to generate a public/private key pair (ipk, isk). The issuance algorithm, Issue, is executed by the issuer to create a credential  $\sigma$  for a user associated with an attribute vector  $(m_1, \ldots, m_n)$ . We assume that the number of attributes n is fixed in advance. A user holding a credential  $\sigma$  for an attribute vector  $(m_1, \ldots, m_n)$  can execute the Show algorithm to selectively disclose a subset  $\mathcal{D} \subseteq [n]$  of attributes to a verifier while keeping the remaining attributes hidden. More formally, the user generates a proof that they possess a valid credential on an attribute vector consistent with the disclosed attributes. A verifier who knows the issuer's public key can then verify this proof.

<span id="page-9-1"></span>**Definition 1.** (Anonymous Credentials). An anonymous credentials scheme consists of the following algorithms:

- $\mathsf{Setup}(1^{\lambda}, n)$ : On input a security parameter  $\lambda$  and an integer n, this algorithm outputs public parameters pp. The public parameters are considered implicit inputs for all the algorithms described below.
- $\mathsf{IKeyGen}(pp)$ : On input the public parameters pp, this algorithm outputs a the issuer's public-private key pair (ipk, isk).
- Issue(isk,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ) On input an issuer secret key isk, and the set of attributes  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$  of a given user, this algorithm outputs a credential  $\sigma$ , on the attributes  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ .

For sake of simplicity, the issuance process is presented as a non-interactive algorithm rather than an interactive protocol between the issuer and the user.

{10}------------------------------------------------

- VerifyCred(ipk,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ,  $\sigma$ ): On input an issuer public key ipk, a user attributes  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ , and a credential  $\sigma$ , this algorithm outputs a bit b.
- Show(ipk,  $\sigma$ ,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ): This algorithm is run by a user, on input a public key ipk, a credential  $\sigma$ , a disclosure set  $\mathcal{D} \subseteq [n]$ , and attributes  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ , it outputs a verifiable presentation vp.
- Verify(ipk, vp,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i\in\mathcal{D}}$ ): This algorithm is run by a verifier, on input a public key ipk, a verifiable presentation vp, a disclosure set  $\mathcal{D} \subseteq [n]$ , and attributes  $\{m_i\}_{i\in\mathcal{D}}$ , it outputs a bit b.

Correctness requires the following to hold:

1. For all  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n \in \mathbb{Z}_p^n$ , we have

$$\Pr[\operatorname{pp} \leftarrow \$ \operatorname{\mathsf{Setup}}(1^{\lambda}); \sigma \leftarrow \$ \operatorname{\mathsf{Issue}}(\operatorname{isk}, \{m_i\}_{i=1}^n) : \operatorname{\mathsf{VerifyCred}}(\operatorname{ipk}, \{m_i\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma) = 1] = 1.$$

2. For all  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n \in \mathbb{Z}_p^n$ , all  $\mathrm{pp} \in_{\$} \{ \mathsf{Setup}(1^{\lambda}) \}$ , any  $(\mathrm{ipk}, \mathrm{isk}) \in_{\$} \{ \mathsf{IKeyGen}(\mathrm{pp}),$  any  $\mathcal{D} \subseteq [n]$ , any  $\sigma$  with  $\mathsf{VerifyCred}(\mathrm{ipk}, \{m_i\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma) = 1$ , and all  $vp \in_{\$} \{ \mathsf{Show}(\mathrm{ipk}, \sigma, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i=1}^n) \}$ , we have  $\mathsf{Verify}(\mathrm{ipk}, vp, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i\in\mathcal{D}}) = 1$ .

In addition to correctness, an anonymous credential scheme must satisfy two additional security properties: unforgeability (ensuring that no credential can be successfully shown unless it was legitimately issued by an authorized issuer) and anonymity (guaranteeing that no information about the user is revealed beyond the attributes they explicitly consent to disclose during the execution of the Show algorithm).

Anonymity. In essence, a verifiable presentation (VP) should reveal only the attributes that the user chooses to disclose, without leaking information about undisclosed attributes. Furthermore, a VP generated from a credential must not be linkable to the issuance of that credential, and multiple VPs derived from the same credential, regardless of whether they disclose the same attributes or different ones, must remain unlinkable, except for any linkability inherently implied by the disclosed attributes themselves. The first aspect follows directly from the definition below. The latter two aspects are ensured by the fact that in this definition  $\mathcal{A}$  knows the credentials  $\sigma^0$  and  $\sigma^1$ , and can therefore simulate proofs using these credentials independently.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Definition 2.** (Anonymity). Consider the following experiment  $\mathbf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathrm{ano}}(1^{\lambda})$  which involves an adversary  $\mathcal{A} = (\mathcal{A}_1, \mathcal{A}_2)$  and a scheme  $\Pi$ :

```
1. \operatorname{pp} \leftarrow \operatorname{Setup}(1^{\lambda}).

2. (\operatorname{ipk}, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i^0\}_{i \in [n]}, \sigma_0, \{m_i^1\}_{i \in [n]}, \sigma_1, st) \leftarrow \operatorname{A}_1(\operatorname{pp}), where:

-\operatorname{VerifyCred}(\operatorname{ipk}, \{m_i^0\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma^0) = \operatorname{VerifyCred}(\operatorname{ipk}, \{m_i^1\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma^1) = 1, and -m_i^0 = m_i^1, for i \in \mathcal{D}.

3. Choose b \leftarrow \operatorname{A}_1(0, 1) and \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) and \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) and \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) and \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show \operatorname{Constant}(0, 1) show
```

{11}------------------------------------------------

4. 
$$b' \leftarrow A_2(vp, st)$$
.

We denote by AnoSucceeds the event that  $\mathcal{A}$  succeeds in the  $\mathbf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathrm{ano}}(1^{\lambda})$ , which occurs when b' = b. The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  is then defined as:

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ano}}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}(1^{\lambda}) = |\Pr[\mathrm{AnoSucceeds}] - \frac{1}{2}|.$$

Anonymity requires that the advantage of any efficient adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  remains negligible.

**Unforgeability.** Unforgeability ensures that it is infeasible for an adversary to produce a valid verifiable presentation (VP) without having previously obtained a credential from an accepted issuer on attributes satisfying the disclosure policy D. In other words, a user cannot generate a valid VP for a given set of disclosed attributes unless it possesses a credential whose attribute vector matches those attributes exactly. This property should also prevent 'mix-and-match' attacks, where attributes from multiple credentials could be combined to construct a fraudulent proof.

**Definition 3.** (Unforgeability). Consider the following experiment  $\mathbf{Exp}^{\mathrm{uf}}_{\mathcal{A}}(1^{\lambda})$ which involves an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  and a scheme  $\Pi$ :

- 1. pp  $\leftarrow$ \$ Setup $(1^{\lambda})$ .
- $2. \ (isk,ipk) \leftarrow \$ \mathsf{IKeyGen}(pp)$
- 3.  $(\mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, vp) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}_1^{\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Issue}, \mathcal{O}\mathsf{Show}}(pp, ipk), \text{ where:}$   $\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Issue}(\{m_i^k\}_{i=1}^n)$ 
  - - σ<sup>k</sup> ←\$ Issue(isk, {m<sub>i</sub><sup>k</sup>}<sub>i=1</sub><sup>n</sup>)
      add {m<sub>i</sub><sup>k</sup>}<sub>i=1</sub><sup>n</sup> to the set Q<sub>issue</sub> which is empty at the beginning of the experiment.
  - $-\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Show}(\mathcal{D},k)$ 
    - $vp \leftarrow \$ \mathsf{Show}(\mathsf{ipk}, \sigma^k, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i^k\}_{i=1}^n)$

We denote by UfSucceeds the event that  $\mathcal{A}$  succeeds in the  $\mathbf{Exp}^{\mathrm{uf}}_{\mathcal{A}}(1^{\lambda})$ , which occurs when  $\mathsf{Verify}(\mathsf{ipk}, vp, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}) = 1$ , and  $\mathcal{A}$  has never queried  $\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Issue}$  on an attribute vector  $\{m_i'\}_{i=1}^n$ , with  $m_i' = m_i$  for all  $i \in \mathcal{D}$ . The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  is then defined as:

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{uf}}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}(1^{\lambda}) = \Pr[\mathsf{UfSucceeds}].$$

#### Keyed-Verification Anonymous Credentials (KVACs). 2.5

Traditional anonymous credential schemes rely on public key primitives, namely digital signatures with the issuer and verifier being distinct entities. In contrast, KVACs, introduced by Chase et al. [16], represent the symmetric-key counterpart of anonymous credential schemes. They use symmetric primitives (namely algebraic MACs) and are designed for settings where the issuer also acts as the verifier, or more generally, where both share the same secret issuance key. Similar 

{12}------------------------------------------------

to anonymous credentials, KVACs must satisfy not only correctness but also unforgeability and anonymity, as defined earlier in the context of anonymous credentials (for formal definitions, see [16]). KVACs are based on algebraic MACs [16, 3], the symmetric-key counterparts of digital signatures. An algebraic MAC employs cyclic groups instead of hash functions or block ciphers, enabling efficient zero-knowledge proofs. This property makes algebraic MACs particularly suitable for privacy-preserving systems like anonymous credentials. Informally, a keyed-verification anonymous credential can be seen as the symmetric-key equivalent of an anonymous credential: the issuer and verifier share the same secret key, and verification is performed using this secret key. Consequently, KVACs do not provide public verifiability.

The use of symmetric key primitives like MACs makes KVACs more efficient and allows them to avoid reliance on pairings. However, the lack of public verifiability limits their applicability in scenarios where public verification is essential, such as digital identity systems, especially in the context of the European digital identity wallet (EUDIW).

<span id="page-12-0"></span>Turning KVACs into Pairing-Free Anonymous Credentials Recently, Desmoulins et al. [22] showed how to transform a pairing-free KVAC system into a pairing-free public-key anonymous credential system by leveraging a recent result on oblivious issuance of proofs by Orrù et al. [36], while relying on assistance from the issuer during verification. This approach enables a user to prove possession of a credential to any verifier without requiring the verifier to know the issuer's private key. The core idea can be illustrated in the context of BBS. In BBS/BBS+ schemes, pairings are traditionally used by the verifier to check whether the equality  $\bar{B} \stackrel{?}{=} \bar{A}^{\text{isk}}$  holds, where isk is the issuer's secret key (see VerifyCred(isk,  $\{m_i\}_{i\in\mathcal{D}}$ ), in Section 2.6). Desmoulins et al. proposed three alternatives to allow any verifier to perform this check without pairings:

- 1. The verifier asks the issuer to confirm whether  $\bar{B} \stackrel{?}{=} \bar{A}^{isk}$  holds.
- 2. The user anonymously requests, during the Show protocol, a blind proof (also called an Oblivious Proof [36]),  $\pi_{\text{dleq}}$ , demonstrating that  $\bar{B} \stackrel{?}{=} \bar{A}^{\text{isk}}$ , which is then sent along with the VP to the verifier.
- 3. The user precomputes several pairs  $(A_i = A^{l_i}, B_i = B^{l_i})$  for random values  $l_i \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and anonymously requests the issuer to produce blind proofs  $\pi_{\text{dleq}}$  for each, showing that  $B_i = A_i^{\text{sk}_I}$ . These proofs are stored for future use, particularly in offline scenarios where both user and verifier lack connectivity.

The blind proof  $\pi_{\text{DLEQ}}$  can be generated using the seminal Chaum-Pedersen blind signature protocol [19]. For more details on these options, we refer the reader to [22]. This concept was later formalized by Chairattana-Apirom et al. [15] as server-aided anonymous credentials (SAACs). For simplicity, in this work we focus exclusively on the second option, which uses oblivious issuance of proofs [36] (for a formal definition of SAACs, see [15]).

{13}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-13-0"></span>2.6 BBS-Based Anonymous Credentials

In this section, we describe the BBS-based anonymous credential system. BBS exists in two variants: the original BBS scheme [7, 10, 13], which is more efficient and produces shorter signatures, and a less efficient variant known as BBS+[1]. Tessaro and Zhu [41] recently provided security proofs for the original BBS construction. Our description follows their formulation, which corresponds to the original BBS scheme. The scheme is composed of the following algorithms:

- Setup( $1^{\lambda}$ , n): On input a security parameter  $1^{\lambda}$  and a bound n on the number of attributes to certify, this algorithm first runs  $(p, \mathbb{G}_1, \mathbb{G}_2, g, \tilde{g}, \mathbf{e}) \leftarrow \mathbb{G}_1$  BGen( $1^{\lambda}$ ), selects  $g_0, h, h_0, h_1, \ldots, h_n \leftarrow \mathbb{G}_1$ , and  $\tilde{h} \leftarrow \mathbb{G}_2$ , then returns the public parameters pp =  $(p, \mathbb{G}_1, \mathbb{G}_2, g, \tilde{g}, \mathbf{e}, g_0, h, h_0, h_1, \ldots, h_n, \tilde{h})$ .
- IKeyGen(pp): select  $y \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , and returns  $(\tilde{ipk}, isk) = (\tilde{g}^y, y)$ .
- Issue(isk,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ): Let isk = y, compute  $C_m = h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m_i}$ . Select  $e \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p \setminus \{y\}$ , and compute  $A = C_m^{\frac{1}{y+e}}$ . Return  $\sigma = (A, e)$ .
- VerifyCred( $\tilde{ipk}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ,  $\sigma = (A, e)$ ): Compute  $C_m = h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m_i}$ . If  $C_m = 1$  return 0. Otherwise, return  $\mathbf{e}(A, \tilde{ipk}) \stackrel{?}{=} \mathbf{e}(A^{-e}C_m, \tilde{g})$ .
- Show(ipk,  $\sigma$ ,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ): Parse  $\sigma$  as (A,e), and compute  $C_m = h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m_i}$ . Select  $r_1, r_2 \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and set  $D = C_m^{r_1}, \bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-e}D^{r_2}$ . Let  $r_3 = r_1^{-1} \pmod{p}$  compute a ZKPK  $\pi = \text{PoK}\{(\{m_i\}_{i \notin \mathcal{D}}^n, e, r_2, r_3) : \bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-e}D^{r_2} \wedge h_0 \prod_{i \in \mathcal{D}} h_i^{m_i} = D^{r_3} \prod_{i \notin \mathcal{D}} h_i^{-m_i}\}$ . Return  $vp = (\{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}^n, \bar{B}, \bar{A}, D, \pi)$ .
- Verify( $\tilde{ipk}, vp, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i \notin \mathcal{D}}$ ): vp as  $\{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}^n, \bar{B}, \bar{A}, D, \pi$ . Accept if  $\bar{A} \neq 1$ , the verification of  $\pi$  succeed and if we have  $\mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, ipk) = (\bar{B}, \tilde{g})$ .

#### 2.7 BBS-Based KVACs

BBS-based keyed-verification anonymous credentials (KVACs) can be viewed as a variant of BBS-based anonymous credentials, but without public verifiability. In traditional BBS schemes, public verifiability relies on pairings and the issuer's public key, which enable checking whether the equality  $\bar{B} \stackrel{?}{=} \bar{A}^{isk}$  holds, where isk denotes the issuer's secret key. In contrast, KVACs rely on algebraic MACs and avoid pairings; verification is performed using the issuer' secret key rather than a public key. Informally, BBS-based KVACs share the same core algorithms as BBS-based ACs: Setup, Issue, VerifyCred, Show, and Verify, but with a few key differences (for a formal definition of KVACs, see [16]). The Setup algorithm is similar, except that KVACs do not require a bilinear group; a single cyclic group  $\mathbb G$  of prime order suffices. The IKeyGen algorithm is also similar, but the public key becomes optional and, when present, it lies in  $\mathbb G$ . During issuance, in addition to the standard BBS Issue procedure that outputs a credential

{14}------------------------------------------------

σ = (A, e), the issuer computes a zero-knowledge proof of knowledge (ZKPoK) πuser = PoK{α : B = A<sup>α</sup>}, where B = CmA−<sup>e</sup> = Aisk. Along with the credential (A, e), the issuer returns πuser. Credential verification VerifyCred, consists of checking the ZKPoK πuser. The Show algorithm remains unchanged. The final verification Verify still checks π, but instead of using pairings to verify B¯ ?= A¯isk , it relies on the issuer's secret key isk to perform this check.

Remark 1. As discussed in Section [2.5,](#page-12-0) recent results [\[22,](#page-30-9) [15\]](#page-30-10) show how to transform KVACs into pairing-free anonymous credentials, thereby eliminating the need for the verifier to know the issuer's secret key. These constructions have attracted significant interest within the anonymous credential community, particularly in the context of EUDIW, as they enable public verifiability without relying on pairings. However, a major remaining challenge is how to incorporate issuer-hiding properties into such protocols. This is a question we aim to address in this work.

## 3 Issuer-Hiding Anonymous Credentials

Earlier anonymous credentials [\[13,](#page-30-2) [38,](#page-31-0) [28\]](#page-31-1) focused on concealing the user's identity while revealing the issuer's identity. However, in certain scenarios, disclosing the issuer's identity may compromise the user's anonymity, meaning that most existing schemes do not provide complete anonymity guarantees. Introducing issuer-hiding addresses this issue by preventing any inference about the user's identity based on the knowledge of the issuer's identity.

In this section, we recall the definition of issuer-hiding anonymous credentials (AC) [\[6,](#page-29-7) [39,](#page-31-2) [32\]](#page-31-4) by extending the basic anonymous credential model presented in Section [2.4](#page-9-0) to include additional algorithms required for issuer-hiding. While some algorithms from the basic model, such as Setup, may require modifications to support issuer-hiding, others namely IKeyGen, Issue, and VerifyCred (see Definition [1\)](#page-9-1) remain unchanged. The main differences occur in the Show and Verify algorithms, which must be adapted to incorporate the issuer-hiding feature.

Two new algorithms are introduced: GenPolicy, and VerifyPolicy. The entity responsible for generating the presentation policy pol receives a set of authorized issuers P (identified by their public keys, with |P| > 1), runs GenPolicy(P), and outputs pol. Our construction allows GenPolicy to be executed either by the RP or by a certification authority; w.l.o.g, we assume throughout this paper that the certification authority runs GenPolicy. The resulting presentation policy pol can be verified by anyone by running the VerifyPolicy(P, pol) algorithm.

Definition 4. (Issuer-Hiding Anonymous Credentials). An issuer-hiding anonymous credential scheme consists of the algorithms Setup, IKeyGen, Issue, and VerifyCred as defined in Definition [1,](#page-9-1) along with the following additional or extended algorithms:

– GenPolicy(P): Given a set of public keys P as input, this algorithm outputs a presentation policy pol.

{15}------------------------------------------------

- VerifyPolicy( $\mathcal{P}$ , pol): Given a set of issuers public keys  $\mathcal{P}$ , and a presentation policy pol as input, this algorithm outputs a bit b.
- Show(ipk,  $\sigma$ ,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ , pol): Given a public key ipk, a credential  $\sigma$ , a disclosure set  $\mathcal{D} \subseteq [n]$ , attributes  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ , and a presentation policy pol as input, it outputs a verifiable presentation vp.
- Verify $(vp, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, \text{pol})$ : This algorithm is run by a RP. Given a verifiable presentation vp, a disclosure set  $\mathcal{D} \subseteq [n]$ , attributes  $\{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}$ , and a presentation policy pol as input, it outputs a bit b.

The correctness requires the following to hold:

1. For all  $pp \in \{Setup(1^{\lambda})\}$ , any set of keys  $\mathcal{P} = \{(isk_1, ipk_1), \dots, (isk_{\ell}, ipk_{\ell})\} \in \{IKeyGen(pp)\}^{\ell}, any pol \in \{GenPolicy(\mathcal{P})\},$  we have:

$$\mathsf{VerifyPolicy}(\mathcal{P}, \mathrm{pol}) = 1$$

2. For all  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n \in \mathbb{Z}_p^n$ , all  $\mathrm{pp} \in_{\$} \{\mathsf{Setup}(1^{\lambda})\}$ , any set of keys  $\mathcal{P} = \{(\mathrm{isk}_1, \mathrm{ipk}_1), \dots, (\mathrm{isk}_\ell, \mathrm{ipk}_\ell)\} \in_{\$} \{\mathsf{IKeyGen}(pp)\}^{\ell}, \text{ any } \mathrm{pol} \in_{\$} \{\mathsf{GenPolicy}(\mathcal{P})\},$  any  $\mathcal{D} \subseteq [n]$ , any  $\sigma$  with  $\mathsf{VerifyCred}(\mathrm{ipk}_j, \{m_i\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma) = 1$ , and all  $vp \in_{\$} \{\mathsf{Show}(\mathrm{ipk}_j, \sigma, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i=1}^n, \mathrm{pol})\}$ , we have:

$$\mathsf{Verify}(vp, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, \mathsf{pol}) = 1.$$

In addition to the correctness, issuer-hiding anonymous credentials must satisfy two security properties which are formalized below: unforgeability and anonymity. However, unlike the definition in Definition 1 for basic anonymous credentials, unforgeability here encompasses not only credential unforgeability but also the policy unforgeability. This means that a user should not be able to produce a verifiable presentation that passes the verification without possessing a credential issued by an authorized issuer within  $\mathcal{P}$ .

Similarly, anonymity extends beyond user anonymity, as defined in Definition 2, to include issuer anonymity, namely issuer-hiding. In practice, this is achieved by allowing the adversary to specify two issuer public keys in addition to two sets of attributes and two credentials, as in Definition 2.

#### Anonymity.

**Definition 5.** (Anonymity). Consider the following experiment  $\mathbf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathrm{ih-ano}}(1^{\lambda})$  which involves an adversary  $\mathcal{A} = (\mathcal{A}_1, \mathcal{A}_2)$  and a scheme  $\Pi$ :

```
1. \operatorname{pp} \leftarrow \operatorname{Setup}(1^{\lambda}).

2. (\mathcal{D}, \{m_i^0\}_{i \in [n]}, \sigma^0, \operatorname{ipk}^0, \{m_i^1\}_{i \in [n]}, \sigma^1, \operatorname{ipk}^1, \operatorname{pol}, st) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}_1(\operatorname{pp}), where:

-\operatorname{ipk}^0, \operatorname{ipk}^1 \in \mathcal{P}.

-\operatorname{VerifyPolicy}(\mathcal{P}, \operatorname{pol}) = 1
```

{16}------------------------------------------------

```
 - \operatorname{\sf VerifyCred}(\operatorname{ipk}_0, \{m_i^0\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma^0) = \\ \operatorname{\sf VerifyCred}(\operatorname{ipk}_1, \{m_i^1\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma^1) = 1, \text{ and } \\ - m_i^0 = m_i^1, \text{ for } i \in \mathcal{D}. \\ 3. \text{ Choose } b \leftarrow \$ \{0, 1\} \text{ and run } vp \leftarrow \$ \operatorname{\sf Show}(\operatorname{ipk}^b, \sigma^b, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i^b\}_{i=1}^n, \operatorname{pol}). \\ 4. \ b' \leftarrow \$ \mathcal{A}_2(vp, st).
```

We denote by AnoSucceeds the event that  $\mathcal{A}$  succeeds in the  $\mathbf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathrm{ih-ano}}(1^{\lambda})$ , which occurs when b' = b. The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  is then defined as:

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ano}}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}(1^{\lambda}) = |\Pr[\mathrm{AnoSucceeds}] - \frac{1}{2}|.$$

<span id="page-16-0"></span>**Unforgeability.** While the challenge policy  $\operatorname{pol}^*$  may include only issuers' keys, we allow the adversary to generate its own issuance keys by granting it access to the oracle  $\mathcal{O}\mathsf{IKeyGen}$ . The adversary can also request verifiable presentations for arbitrary sets of ipk's from the showing oracle  $\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Show}$ , thereby covering scenarios involving adversarial issuers.

**Definition 6.** (Unforgeability). Consider the following experiment  $\mathbf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathrm{ih-uf}}(1^{\lambda})$  which involves an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  and a scheme  $\Pi$ :

```
 \begin{array}{l} 1. \hspace{0.1cm} \operatorname{pp} \leftarrow \hspace{-0.1cm} \$ \operatorname{Setup}(1^{\lambda}). \\ 2. \hspace{0.1cm} \mathcal{P} = \{(\operatorname{isk}_1, \operatorname{ipk}_1), \dots, (\operatorname{isk}_\ell, \operatorname{ipk}_\ell)\} \leftarrow \hspace{-0.1cm} \$ \left\{ \operatorname{IKeyGen}(pp) \right\}^{\ell}. \\ 3. \hspace{0.1cm} \operatorname{pol}^* \leftarrow \hspace{-0.1cm} \$ \operatorname{GenPolicy}(\mathcal{P}). \\ 4. \hspace{0.1cm} (\mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, vp) \leftarrow \hspace{-0.1cm} \$ \mathcal{A}_1^{\mathcal{O}\operatorname{IKeyGen}, \mathcal{O}\operatorname{Issue}, \mathcal{O}\operatorname{Show}}(\operatorname{pp}, \operatorname{pol}^*), \hspace{0.1cm} \text{where:} \\ \hspace{0.1cm} - \hspace{0.1cm} \mathcal{O}\operatorname{IKeyGen}(\operatorname{pp}) \\ \hspace{0.1cm} \bullet \hspace{0.1cm} (\operatorname{isk}, \operatorname{ipk}) \leftarrow \hspace{-0.1cm} \$ \operatorname{IKeyGen}(\operatorname{pp}) \\ \hspace{0.1cm} \bullet \hspace{0.1cm} \operatorname{add} \hspace{0.1cm} (\operatorname{isk}, \operatorname{ipk}) \hspace{0.1cm} \operatorname{to} \hspace{0.1cm} Q_{\operatorname{keys}}. \\ \hspace{0.1cm} - \hspace{0.1cm} \mathcal{O}\operatorname{Issue}(\{m_i^k\}_{i=1}^n, \operatorname{ipk}_k) \\ \hspace{0.1cm} \bullet \hspace{0.1cm} \operatorname{add} \hspace{0.1cm} (\{m_i^k\}_{i=1}^n, \operatorname{ipk}_k) \hspace{0.1cm} \operatorname{to} \hspace{0.1cm} Q_{\operatorname{issue}}. \\ \hspace{0.1cm} - \hspace{0.1cm} \mathcal{O}\operatorname{Show}(\mathcal{D}, \operatorname{pol}^*, \operatorname{ipk}_k) \\ \hspace{0.1cm} \bullet \hspace{0.1cm} vp \leftarrow \hspace{-0.1cm} \$ \operatorname{Show}(\operatorname{ipk}_k, \sigma^k, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i^k\}_{i=1}^n, \operatorname{pol}^*) \\ \end{array}
```

We denote by UfSucceeds the event that  $\mathcal{A}$  succeeds in the  $\mathbf{Exp}_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathrm{ih-uf}}(1^{\lambda})$ , which occurs when  $\mathsf{Verify}(\mathrm{ipk}, vp, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, \mathrm{pol}) = 1$ ,  $\mathcal{A}$  has never queried  $\mathcal{O}$ Issue on an attribute vector  $\{m_i'\}_{i=1}^n$ , with  $m_i' = m_i$  for all  $i \in \mathcal{D}$ , and  $\mathrm{ipk}^* \notin \mathrm{pol}^*$  and with the issuer key  $\mathrm{ipk}^* \in \mathcal{P} \cup Q_{\mathrm{keys}}$ . The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  is then defined as:

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ih-uf}}_{\mathcal{A},\Pi}(1^{\lambda}) = \Pr[\mathrm{UfSucceeds}].$$

## 4 Katz and Sefranek BBS-based issuer-hiding

The recent work introduced by Katz and Sefranek [32] presents the first issuer hiding AC scheme based on BBS signatures. A key achievement of their work is that issuer-hiding was integrated without modifying the underlying BBS scheme. Their approach is more efficient than the Sanders and Traoré construction [40], because it benefits from the inherent efficiency of BBS-based credentials compared

{17}------------------------------------------------

to Pointcheval-Sanders (PS) based credentials, on which the Sanders and Traoré scheme relies on. Specifically, the Katz and Sefranek scheme uses constant size issuer public keys, whereas Sanders and Traoré's public keys grow linearly with the number of attributes n. Consequently, Katz and Sefranek achieve significantly shorter policy keys. In this section, we revisit the Katz and Sefranek construction, outline attacks applicable to both schemes [32] and [40].

#### <span id="page-17-0"></span>4.1 The construction

We now recall the BBS-based issuer-hiding anonymous credential system introduced by Katz and Sefranek [32]. We omit the Setup, IKeyGen, Issue and VerifyCred algorithms, as they are identical to those described in Section 2.6. The remaining algorithms are defined as follows:

– GenPolicy( $\mathcal{P}$ ): Parse  $\mathcal{P}$  as  $\{\tilde{ipk}_j\}_{j\in[\ell]}$ . Select  $a \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and  $b \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p$ , and then compute  $\tilde{S} = \tilde{g}^a$ . For  $j \in [\ell]$ , set  $\tilde{T}_j = (\tilde{ipk}_j \tilde{g}^b)^a$ . Set  $sk_{\mathcal{P}} = (a, b)$ . The policy key  $pk_{\mathcal{P}}$  consists of the pair  $(S, \{\tilde{T}_j\}_{j\in[\ell]})$  and a ZKPK proving the following statement:

<span id="page-17-1"></span>
$$\exists a, b \text{ s.t. } \tilde{S} = \tilde{g}^a \wedge \forall j : \tilde{T}_j = (i\tilde{p}k_j\tilde{g}^b)^a.$$
 (1)

- VerifyPolicy( $\mathcal{P}, \operatorname{pk}_{\mathcal{P}}$ ): Parse  $\operatorname{pk}_{\mathcal{P}}$  as  $(S, \{\tilde{T}_j\}_{j \in [\ell]})$  plus a ZPK of statement (eq. (1)). Accept if  $\ell = |\mathcal{P}|, \tilde{S} \neq 1$ , and the verification of the ZKPK succeeds.
- Show(ipk,  $\sigma$ ,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ,  $\mathcal{P}$ ): If  $|\mathcal{P}| = 1$ , the original Show algorithm is used, so we assume  $|\mathcal{P}| > 1$ . Parse  $\mathcal{P}$  as  $\{ipk_j\}_{j\in[\ell]}$  and  $\sigma$  as (A, e), and let  $j^*$  be s.t. ipk =  $ipk_{j^*}$ . Select  $r_1, r_2 \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and  $t \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p$ . Compute  $C_m = h_0 \prod_{i\in[n]} h_i^{m_i}$ ,  $\bar{A} = A^{r_1r_2}$ ,  $D = C_m^{r_1}$ ,  $\bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-e-t}D^{r_2}$ , and  $\tilde{\sigma} = \tilde{S}^t \prod_{j\neq j^*} \tilde{T}_j$ . The verifiable presentation vp consists of  $\bar{A}, \bar{B}, D$ , and  $\tilde{\sigma}$ , along with a ZKPK such as:

$$\exists \{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, e', r_1, r_2 s.t. \bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-e'} D^{r_2} \wedge h_0 \prod_{i \in \mathcal{D}} h_i^{m_i} = D^{\frac{1}{r_1}} \prod_{i \notin \mathcal{D}} h_i^{-m_i}$$
(2)

<span id="page-17-2"></span>- Verify $(vp, \mathcal{D}, \{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, \mathcal{P})$ : If  $|\mathcal{P}| = 1$ , the original Verify algorithm is used, so we assume  $|\mathcal{P}| > 1$ . Parse vp as  $\bar{A}, \bar{B}, D$ , and  $\tilde{\sigma}$  and a ZPK of statement (eq. (2)), and parse  $\mathrm{sk}_{\mathcal{P}}$  as (a, b). Accept iff (1)  $\bar{A} \neq 1$ , (2) the verification of the ZKPK succeeds, and (3) eq. (3) holds:

<span id="page-17-3"></span>
$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, \tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{-1}{a}} \tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b} \prod_{j \in [\ell]} i\tilde{p}k_j) \stackrel{?}{=} \mathbf{e}(\bar{B}, \tilde{g}). \tag{3}$$

{18}------------------------------------------------

#### <span id="page-18-0"></span>4.2 Attacks

Our attack targets the presentation policy and can be viewed as an attack on the policy unforgeability of the Katz and Sefranek scheme. It enables a user to authenticate using a verifiable presentation for a credential that was not issued by any of the authorized issuers in  $\mathcal{P}$ . The two following realistic scenarios are defined below, where the user must collaborate with one or more authorized issuers.

**Scenario 1.** In this scenario, an authorized issuer assists a malicious user. The issuer helps the user to issue new credentials using their own secret keys, even though the corresponding public key is not included in the authorized issuer's public key set,  $\mathcal{P}$ . Consequently, the user can obtain credentials for arbitrary attributes using the unauthorized issuance keys that they will be able to successfully present to any relying party. We describe the attack as follows:

- **Setup:** an authorized issuer with secret key isk<sub>j0</sub> =  $y_{j_0}$  and public key  $ip\tilde{k}_{j_0} = \tilde{g}^{y_{j_0}}$  sends to the malicious user the commitment  $i\bar{p}k_{j_0} = \tilde{S}^{y_{j_0}} = \tilde{g}^{ay_{j_0}}$  on his secret key. The malicious user then generates a secret key sk =  $y \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , and computes a public key  $\tilde{p}k = \tilde{g}^y$ , and  $\tilde{p}k = \tilde{S}^{-y} = \tilde{g}^{-ay}$ .
- **Credential generation:** To issue a credential on attribute  $\{m_i\}_{i\in[n]}$ , the user runs a typical BBS-credential generation on  $\{m_i\}_{i\in[n]}$  with  $\mathrm{sk}=y$  being the issuance key here. He outputs a credential  $\sigma^*=(A^*,e^*)$ , which can be verified using the corresponding verification algorithm.
- **Showing:** The only difference with the Show algorithm presented in Section 4.1 is the computation of  $\tilde{\sigma}$ . To do so, the user chooses a random  $j' \leftarrow \$ [\ell]$  and computes:

$$\tilde{T}_{j'} = (\tilde{g}^b i \tilde{p} k_{j'})^a i \bar{p} k_{j_0} \bar{p} k = (\tilde{g}^b i \tilde{p} k_{j'})^a \tilde{g}^{a(y_{j_0} - y)}$$

This implies:

$$\tilde{T}_{j'} = (\tilde{g}^b \tilde{ipk}_{j'} \tilde{ipk}_{j_0} \tilde{pk}^{-1})^a$$

He computes  $\tilde{\sigma} = \tilde{S}^t \prod_{j \neq j_0} \tilde{T}_j = \tilde{g}^{ta} \tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)ba} \tilde{pk}^{-a} \prod_{j \in [\ell]} \tilde{\text{lpk}}_j^a$ . He outputs a verifiable presentation  $vp^*$  while running the remaining steps of the Show algorithm as described in Section 4.1.

- **Verification:** The user verifiable presentation is verified using the **Verify** algorithm defined in Section 4.1. The verifier checks the presentation by testing whether:

$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{A}^*, \tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{-1}{a}} \tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b} \prod_{j \in [\ell]} \tilde{\mathrm{ipk}}_j) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{B}^*, \tilde{g})$$

Since we have  $\tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{-1}{a}}\tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b}\prod_{j\in[\ell]}\tilde{\mathrm{ipk}}_j=\tilde{\mathrm{pk}}\tilde{g}^{-t}$ , the presentation is accepted by the verifier, even though  $\tilde{\mathrm{pk}}$  is not included in  $\mathcal{P}$ . This constitutes the attack in *scenario* 1.

{19}------------------------------------------------

Remark 2. The attack in scenario 1 is very powerful, because it effectively grants the user the capabilities of an authorized issuer. However, its main drawback lies in accountability: if the user's fraudulent actions are detected, for example, a service provider discovers that a minor has presented a proof of majority to access age-restricted content, the verifier can initiate legal procedures against the user. Under pressure, the user may choose to cooperate and reveal the identity of the issuer who assisted them, providing  $\mathrm{ip}\bar{k}_{j_0}$  as evidence. From  $\mathrm{ip}\bar{k}_{j_0}$ , the verifier can easily recover the issuer's identity using the policy secret key  $\mathrm{sk}_{\mathcal{P}}=(a,b)$  by computing  $ip\tilde{k}_{j_0}=\mathrm{ip}\bar{k}_{j_0}^{-\frac{1}{a}}$ .

Consequently, this scenario enables investigators to identify the malicious issuer and punish them, which should deter issuers from engaging in such activities.

**Scenario 2.** Unlike the previous scenario, the attack in this scenario involves two authorized issuers collaborating to generate a credential on arbitrary attributes for a given user using a new issuance key that differs from both of their original keys. The corresponding public key is not included in  $\mathcal{P}$ . During this process, the issuers randomize the commitments to their public keys so that their identities cannot be recovered. We describe the attack as follows:

- **Setup:** we consider two authorized issuers. For sake of simplicity, we assume that the index of their public keys in  $\mathcal{P}$  are j=1 for the first one and j=2 for the second one. Therefore we have issuer-1 with secret key isk<sub>1</sub> =  $y_1$  and public key ipk<sub>1</sub> =  $\tilde{g}^{y_1}$ , and issuer-2 with secret key isk<sub>2</sub> =  $y_2$  and public key ipk<sub>2</sub> =  $\tilde{g}^{y_2}$ . Both issuers randomize their secret key isk<sub>1</sub> =  $\bar{y}_2 = \alpha y_1$ , isk<sub>2</sub> =  $\bar{y}_2 = \beta y_2$ , and commit to their respective new keys ipk<sub>1</sub> =  $\tilde{S}^{\bar{y}_1} = \tilde{g}^{a\alpha y_1}$ , ipk<sub>2</sub> =  $\tilde{S}^{\bar{y}_2} = \tilde{g}^{a\beta y_2}$ , with  $\alpha, \beta \in_{\$} \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ . Now they can generate credentials on arbitrary attributes with the issuance key sk =  $y = \bar{y}_1 + \bar{y}_2 = \alpha y_1 + \beta y_2$ , and the corresponding public key pk =  $\tilde{g}^y$  is not included in  $\mathcal{P}$ .
- Credential generation: To issue a credential on arbitrary attributes  $\{m_i\}_{i\in[n]}$ , both issuers can use a threshold BBS scheme such as the one proposed by Doerner et al. [23].

Let us denote by  $\sigma^* = (A^*, e^*)$  this credential, which is a valid credential on  $\{m_i\}$ , with respect to pk.

The issuers then jointly compute  $\tilde{T} = \tilde{T}_1 \tilde{S}^{y_2} i \bar{p} k_1^{-1} i \bar{p} k_2^{-1} = (\tilde{g}^b i \tilde{p} k_1 i \tilde{p} k_2 \tilde{p} \tilde{k}^{-1})^a$  and then  $\bar{T} = \tilde{T} \prod_{j \neq 1, j \neq 2} i \tilde{p} k_j = \tilde{g}^{(l-1)ba} \tilde{p} \tilde{k}^{-a} \prod_{j \in [l]} i \tilde{p} k_j^a$ . Eventually, the issuers send the credential  $\sigma^* = (A^*, e^*)$  along with  $\bar{T}$  to the malicious user. They may also publish these values on the dark web.

– Showing: The user selects  $t \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and computes:

$$\tilde{\sigma} = \tilde{S}^t \bar{T} = \tilde{g}^{ta} \tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)ba} \tilde{pk}^{-a} \prod_{j \in [\ell]} i \tilde{pk}_j^a$$

{20}------------------------------------------------

The rest is the same as with the Show algorithm in Section 4.1. He outputs a verifiable presentation  $vp^*$ .

- **Verification:** The user verifiable presentation is verified using the **Verify** algorithm defined in Section 4.1. The verification succeeds, as the verifier checks the presentation by testing whether:

$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{A}^*, \tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{-1}{a}} \tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b} \prod_{j \in [\ell]} \tilde{\mathrm{ipk}}_j) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{B}^*, \tilde{g})$$

Since we have  $\tilde{\sigma}^{\frac{-1}{a}}\tilde{g}^{(\ell-1)b}\prod_{j\in[\ell]}\tilde{ipk}_j=\tilde{pk}\tilde{g}^{-t}$ , the presentation is accepted by the verifier, even though  $(\tilde{ipk})$  is not included in  $\mathcal{P}$ . This constitutes the attack in *scenario* 2.

This scenario is the most practical among those presented in this paper and the most likely to occur. In this case, the issuers avoids any risk of having their identity disclosed or being blacklisted. We assume that if an issuer can misbehave without any risk of being exposed, they are highly likely to do so, especially when it serves their financial interests or involves other forms of bribery. While this scenario does not grant the user the authority of a new authorized issuer, as in the previous case (scenario 1), it remains the most realistic option we have identified so far.

Remark 3. In the above attack scenario, we have assumed that at least two issuers are malicious. At first glance, this assumption may seem too strong as one could argue that if an issuer is malicious, they could issue fake credentials to users — for instance, a proof of majority to a minor. However, by doing so, the malicious issuer would risk being exposed or blackmailed by a minor who could threaten to present the false proof of majority to a child protection agency. The issuer could not deny the misdeed since the proof of majority would bear their signature (a BBS signature, in this case). Therefore, an issuer would not take the risk of committing such fraud. For our attack to succeed, it is therefore necessary that the issuers behind such fraud cannot be identified.

Remark 4. We would like to emphasize that the above attacks do not show that Katz and Sefranek's scheme is insecure with respect to the trust and security models they adopted. In these models, they tacitly consider "honest" issuers keys, which means that the adversary does not have access to the corresponding private keys. Consequently, our attacks would not work. However, our attacks do suggest that these models are not realistic for real-world applications, such as the European digital identity wallet.

Remark 5. Since the presentation policy definition is the same for both the Sanders and Traoré [40] and Katz and Sefranek [32] constructions, the attacks described in both scenarios also apply to the Sanders and Traoré scheme.

{21}------------------------------------------------

## <span id="page-21-0"></span>5 Improved Issuer-Hiding For BBS-Based ACs

We present our construction, which takes a different approach to that proposed by Katz and Sefranek [32] for achieving issuer-hiding in BBS-based anonymous credentials. Our design follows a more standard method, namely the verifier-signed policy approach [6] by relying on well-established primitives. Specifically, we use BBS for both credential generation and presentation policy generation, meaning our scheme is fully BBS-based. The decision to diverge from the Sanders and Traoré [40] approach is motivated by our goal of using a more standardized method to reduce exposure to attacks such as those discussed in Section 4.2. Unlike the constructions of Katz–Sefranek and Sanders–Traoré, it would be extremely difficult for a user to prove possession of a valid credential that was not issued by an authorized issuer in  $\mathcal{P}$ . Doing so would require breaking policy unforgeability, which in our case is equivalent to forging a valid BBS signature.

## 5.1 Construction

We now describe how to incorporate issuer-hiding into BBS-based anonymous credentials using a verifier-signed policy. We omit the Setup, Issue, and VerifyCred algorithms, as they are identical to those in the underlying scheme described in Section 2.6. The remaining algorithms are defined as follows:

- IKeyGen(pp): select  $y \in_{\$} \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , and return (ipk, ipk, isk) =  $(g^y, \tilde{g}^y, y)$ . The issuer also computes a ZKPK  $\pi_{\text{key}} = \text{PoK}\{\alpha : \text{ipk} = g^{\alpha} \land \tilde{\text{ipk}} = \tilde{g}^{\alpha}\}.$
- KeyGen(pp): select  $x \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , and returns  $(\text{vpk}, \text{vpk}, \text{vsk}) = (h^x, \tilde{h}^x, x)$ .
- GenPolicy( $\mathcal{P}$ ): Parse  $\mathcal{P}$  as  $\{(ipk_j, i\tilde{pk}_j)\}_{j\in[\ell]}$ . Run  $(vpk, v\tilde{pk}, vsk) \leftarrow \$$  KeyGen(pp). For  $j \in [\ell]$  verify the provided  $\pi_{key}$  if the verification succeeds, certify the issuer j, by computing

$$\sigma_j = (A_j, e_j)$$
, where  $A_j = (g_0 \operatorname{ipk}_j)^{\frac{1}{x+e_j}}$ , and  $e_j \in \mathbb{Z}_p \setminus \{-x\}$ .

We assume that for  $j \in [\ell]$  the verification of  $\pi_{\text{key}}$  succeeds. Output the presentation policy

$$pol = (vpk, \{(ipk_j, \tilde{ipk}_j, \sigma_j)\}_{j \in [\ell]}).$$

– VerifyPolicy( $\mathcal{P}$ , pol): Parse pol as vpk,  $\{(\mathrm{ipk}_j, \mathrm{ipk}_j, \sigma_j)\}_{j \in [\ell]}$ ). For  $j \in [\ell]$  set  $B_j = g_0 \mathrm{ipk}_j A_j^{-e_j} = A_j^x$ . Accept if  $\ell = |\mathcal{P}|$ , and for all  $j \in [\ell]$ 

$$\mathbf{e}(B_j, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(A_j, \tilde{\text{vpk}}).$$

- Show(ipk<sub>j\*</sub>,  $\sigma$ ,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ , pol,  $\mathcal{P}$ ): If  $|\mathcal{P}| = 1$ , the original Show algorithm is used, so we assume  $|\mathcal{P}| > 1$ . Parse  $\mathcal{P}$  as  $\{\tilde{ipk}_j\}_{j\in[\ell]}$ ,  $\sigma$  as (A, e), and  $\sigma_{j*}$  as  $(A_{j*}, e_{j*})$ . Select  $t, r, r_1, r_2 \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , compute  $(\tilde{ipk}'_{j*} = g^{ty_{j*}}, \tilde{ipk}'_{j*} = \tilde{g}^{ty_{j*}})$ ,

{22}------------------------------------------------

and  $\bar{A}_{j^*} = A_{j^*}^{rt}$  and  $\bar{B}_{j^*} = g_0^{t'} \operatorname{ipk}_{j^*}^{r'} \bar{A}_{j^*}^{-e_{j^*}} = \bar{A}_{j^*}^{x}$ , where t' = tr. Let  $l = r_1 r_2$ ,  $\hat{t} = tl$ , and e' = te. Compute  $\bar{A} = A^l$  and set  $\bar{B} = C_m^{\hat{t}} \bar{A}^{-e'} = \bar{A}^{ty_{j^*}}$ ,  $\bar{D} = C_m^{r_2}$ ,  $\bar{B} = \bar{D}^{tr_1} \bar{A}^{-e'}$ , where  $C_m = h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m_i}$ , and two zero-knowledge proofs,  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$  and  $\pi_{\text{validity}}$ :

$$\pi_{\text{cert}} = \text{PoK}\{\alpha, \beta, \delta : \bar{B}_{j^*} = g_0^{\alpha} \text{ipk}_{j^*}^{\prime}{}^{\beta} \bar{A}_{j^*}^{-\delta} \wedge \alpha \neq 0\}, \text{ and}$$

$$\pi_{\text{validity}} = \text{PoK}\{\alpha, \beta, \gamma, \{\tau_i\}_{i \notin \mathcal{D}} : \bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-\alpha} \bar{D}^{\beta} \wedge h_0 \prod_{i \in \mathcal{D}} h_i^{\tau_i} = \bar{D}^{\gamma} \prod_{i \notin \mathcal{D}} h_i^{-\tau_i} \wedge \beta \neq 0\},$$

the user sends the verifiable presentation

$$vp = (\{m\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, \operatorname{ipk}'_{j^*}, \operatorname{i\tilde{p}k}'_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{A}, \bar{B}, \bar{D}, \pi_{\operatorname{cert}}, \pi_{\operatorname{validity}}).$$

- Verify(ipk, vp,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i\in\mathcal{D}}$ ,  $\mathcal{P}$ ): If  $|\mathcal{P}| = 1$ , the original Verify algorithm is used, so we assume  $|\mathcal{P}| > 1$ . Parse vp as  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $ipk'_{j^*}$ , ip

$$\mathbf{e}(\mathrm{ipk}'_{j^*}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(g, \mathrm{i\tilde{p}k}'_{j^*})$$

$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}_{j^*}, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}_{j^*}, \mathrm{v\tilde{p}k})$$

$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, \mathrm{i\tilde{p}k}'_{j^*}).$$

## 5.2 Security Analysis

We begin by proving that our construction's presentation constitutes a *proof of knowledge* (PoK). To achieve this, we will demonstrate both the *correctness* and *soundness* of our presentation protocol.

#### Proof of Knowledge of a Valid Credential

Correctness.

*Proof.* (sketch) Let (ipk =  $g^{y_{j^*}}$ , ipk<sub> $j^*$ </sub> =  $\tilde{g}^{y_{j^*}}$ ) be the public key of an authorized issuer and  $\sigma_{j^*} = (A_{j^*}, e_{j^*})$  be a certificate certifying its public key. Let  $\sigma = (A, e)$  be a credential under the public key (ipk =  $g^{y_{j^*}}$ , ipk<sub> $j^*$ </sub> =  $\tilde{g}^{y_{j^*}}$ ) on a honest user attributes  $\boldsymbol{m}$ . Let  $vp = (\{m\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, \text{ipk}'_{j^*}, \text{ipk}'_{j^*}, \tilde{p}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}, \bar{B}, \bar{D}, \pi_{\text{cert}}, \pi_{\text{validity}})$  be the VP generated by the user during the presentation protocol. We have:

<span id="page-22-0"></span>
$$\mathbf{e}(\mathrm{ipk}'_{j^*}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(g, \mathrm{i\tilde{p}k}'_{j^*}) \tag{4}$$

<span id="page-22-2"></span>
$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}_{j^*}, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}_{j^*}, \tilde{\text{vpk}}) \tag{5}$$

<span id="page-22-1"></span>
$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, \tilde{\mathrm{ipk}}'_{j^*}). \tag{6}$$

The Equation (4) trivially verifies since  $\operatorname{ipk}'_{j^*}$  and  $\operatorname{ipk}'_{j^*}$ , are randomized versions of the same public key respectively in the group  $\mathbb{G}_1$ , and  $\mathbb{G}_2$ . For Equation (6), since the vp was correctly computed, we know that  $\bar{B} = \bar{A}^{ty_{j^*}}$  therefore

{23}------------------------------------------------

 $\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}^{ty_{j*}}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, \tilde{g}^{ty_{j*}}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, \tilde{\operatorname{ipk}}'_{j*}),$  therefore Equation (6) verifies. Since the vp was correctly computed, we also know that  $\bar{B}_{j*} = \bar{A}^x_{j*}$  therefore  $\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}_{j*}, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}^x_{j*}, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}_{j*}, \tilde{h}^x) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}_{j*}, \tilde{vpk}),$  and Equation (5) also verifies. Thus, our construction satisfies the correctness property.

Soundness For the soundness property, we need to prove that whenever the verifier accepts a VP from a user, then the user (which can be malicious) knows a valid VC on the disclosed attributes  $\mathcal{D}$ , issued by an authorized issuer.

Proof. (sketch) Let us consider a VP  $vp = (\{m\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, \operatorname{ipk}'_{j^*}, \operatorname{ipk}'_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}, \bar{B}, \bar{D}, \pi_{\operatorname{cert}}, \pi_{\operatorname{validity}})$ , that is presented by a potentially malicious user, during a presentation to the verifier, such that the equations Equation (4), Equation (6), Equation (5) are true. From the knowledge extractors of the ZKPKs  $\pi_{\operatorname{cert}}$ , and  $\pi_{\operatorname{validity}}$  we can recover the values  $(\alpha, \beta, \gamma, \delta, \{m_i\}_{i \notin D})$ , and from there we have the attribute  $\boldsymbol{m}$ , and the VC is of the form  $\operatorname{cred} = ((A^*, e^*), \boldsymbol{m})$ . Now it remains to find  $A^*$  and  $e^*$  in order to recover the VC. If  $\gamma = 0$  from the second equation in  $\pi_{\operatorname{validity}}$  we have  $h_0 \prod h_i^{m_i} = \bar{D}^0 = 1_{\mathbb{G}_1}$ , therefore we can extract a valid VC with  $A^* = 1_{\mathbb{G}_1}$ , And  $e^* = e$ . If  $\gamma \neq 0$ , from the second equation of  $\pi_{\operatorname{validity}}$  we have  $\bar{B} = \bar{A}^{-\alpha}\bar{D}^{\beta}$  and from Equation (6) we have  $e(\bar{B}, \tilde{h}) = e(\bar{A}, \operatorname{ipk}'_{j^*})$ , which implies that  $\bar{B} = \bar{A}^{y'_{j^*}}$ . Therefore we have  $\bar{A}^{y'_{j^*}+\alpha} = \bar{D}^{\beta}$ . We know from  $\pi_{\operatorname{validity}}$  that  $\beta \neq 0$ . We also have  $y'_{j^*} + \alpha \neq 0$ , otherwise we would have  $\bar{D}^{\beta} = 0$ , that is  $(h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m_i})^{\beta} = 0$ . The user would therefore know a representation of  $h_0$  in the base  $(h_i)_{i \in [n]}$ . This is impossible unless, he is able to solve the discrete logarithm problem.

To summarize, we have  $\bar{A}^{y'_{j^*}+\alpha}=(h_0\prod_i h_i^{m_i})^{\frac{\beta}{\gamma}}$ . This means that  $(A^*=\bar{A}^{\frac{\gamma}{\beta}},\alpha)$  is a valid BBS signature issued by an issuer whose secrete key is  $isk=y'_{j^*}$ . So far we have proved that if the verifier accept a VP from a user, then the user possesses a valid VC on the disclosed attribute  $\mathcal{D}$ , issued by the issuer with a public (ipk =  $g^{y_{j^*}}$ , ipk<sub>j\*</sub> =  $\tilde{g}^{y_{j^*}}$ ) (\*). Now it remains to show that the public key of that issuer was certified by the certification authority, meaning that it is included in the policy.

From the equality in  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$  and the equation Equation (5) we have  $\bar{B}_{j^*} = \bar{A}_{j^*}^x = g_0^{\alpha} \text{ipk}_{j^*}^{\beta} \bar{A}_{j^*}^{-\delta}$  (the Greek letters here are from  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$ ). We know from Equation (4), that  $\text{ipk}_{j^*}^{\prime} = g^{y'_{j^*}}$ , and from  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$  that  $\alpha \neq 0$ . Therefore, we have  $(\bar{A}_{j^*}^{\alpha^{-1}})^{x+\delta} = g_0 g^{\frac{\beta}{\alpha} y'_{j^*}}$ . We necessarily have  $x + \delta \neq 0$ , otherwise this would mean that  $x = \delta$ , and that the user knows the secret key of the certification authority (RP in some cases). From this we can extract a valid signature  $(A_j, e_j) = (\bar{A}_{j^*}^{\alpha^{-1}}, \delta)$  on  $y_{j^*} = \frac{\beta}{\alpha} y'_{j^*}$ . Thus, this proves that the public key of the putative issuer was certified by the verifier using its secret key vsk = x (\*\*).

(\*) and (\*\*) show that if the verifier accepts a presentation, it means that the user possesses a valid credential issued by an authorized issuer. Thus, this proves the soundness of our issuer-hiding anonymous credential system.

{24}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-24-1"></span>**Unforgeability.** We provide a proof of our construction in the algebraic group model (AGM).

**Theorem 1.** If  $\pi_{\text{setup}}$ ,  $\pi_{\text{user}}$ ,  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$ , and  $\pi_{\text{validity}}$  are straight-line extractable ZKPOK, and BBS is EUF-CMA-secure, then our protocol in Section 5 is unforgeable in the AGM with advantage:

$$\begin{split} \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{uf}}_{\mathcal{A}}(1^{\lambda}) &\leq \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{suf-cma}}_{\mathcal{B},\mathrm{BBS}}(1^{\lambda}) + \frac{1}{n_J}\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{suf}}_{\mathcal{B},\mathrm{BBS}}(1^{\lambda}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ksnd}}_{\mathrm{EXT},\pi_{\mathrm{setup}}}(1^{\lambda}) + \\ &\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ksnd}}_{\mathrm{EXT},\pi_{\mathrm{user}}}(1^{\lambda}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ksnd}}_{\mathrm{EXT},\pi_{\mathrm{cert}}}(1^{\lambda}) + \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ksnd}}_{\mathrm{EXT},\pi_{\mathrm{validity}}}(1^{\lambda}). \end{split}$$

The proof of Theorem Theorem 1 is presented in the Appendix Section B.1.

Issuer-Hiding Anonymity. For the issuer-hiding anonymity, we adapted the proof from [32] to our construction. We demonstrate that our scheme satisfies a notion we refer to as "everlasting" issuer-hiding anonymity. Specifically, as long as  $\mathcal{A}_1$  cannot break the soundness of the zero-knowledge proof protocols  $\pi_{\text{setup}}$  and  $\pi_{\text{user}}$ , then even an unbounded  $\mathcal{A}_1$  cannot compromise the issuer-hiding property for user-generated proofs (vps) based on the signed policy. In other words, issuer-hiding anonymity holds unconditionally under these assumptions.

<span id="page-24-2"></span>**Theorem 2.** If the soundness of the zero-knowledge proof protocols  $\pi_{\text{setup}}$  and  $\pi_{\text{user}}$  holds, then the issuer-hiding anonymity of our construction, as defined in Section 5, holds unconditionally.

The proof of Theorem Theorem 2 is presented in he Appendix Section B.2.

## <span id="page-24-0"></span>6 Extension to a Pairing-free Scheme

In addition to our pairing-based construction, we propose the first pairing-free issuer-hiding anonymous credential scheme based on BBS signatures. This construction avoids pairings by leveraging the approach introduced by Desmoulins et al. [22]. This pairing-free design is of independent interest because it may represent a potential candidate for integration into the EUDIW. The Architecture Reference Framework (ARF) document [25] for EUDIW identifies the issuer-hiding feature as a requirement. Moreover, since it is based on BBS signatures which are currently being standardized by the IETF (see draft [34]), this adds even more value to our construction, which will be easier to deploy in practice.

#### 6.1 Construction

We now describe how to achieve pairing-free issuer-hiding BBS-based anonymous credentials using the technique by Desmoulins et al. [22] and the verifier-signed policy approach [6]. The remaining algorithms are defined as follows:

- Setup( $1^{\lambda}$ , n): On input a security parameter  $1^{\lambda}$  and a bound n on the number of attributes to certify, return the public parameters  $pp = (p, \mathbb{G}_1, g, g_0, h, h_0, h_1, \ldots, h_n)$ , where  $\mathbb{G}_1$  is a cyclic group of prime order p, and  $g_0, h, h_0, h_1, \ldots, h_n \leftarrow \mathbb{G}_1$  are n + 4 generators of  $\mathbb{G}_1$ .

{25}------------------------------------------------

- IKeyGen(pp): select  $y \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , and return (ipk, isk) =  $(g^y, y)$ . The issuer also computes a ZKPK  $\pi_{\text{key}} = \text{PoK}\{\alpha : \text{ipk} = g^{\alpha}\}.$
- Issue(isk,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ): Let isk = y, compute  $C_m = h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m_i}$ . Select  $e \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p \setminus \{y\}$ , and compute  $A = C_m^{\frac{1}{y+e}}$ . The issuer also build a ZKPK  $\pi_{\text{issue}}^{\text{dleq}} := \text{PoK}\{\alpha : B = A^{\alpha} \land \text{ipk} = g^{\alpha}\}$  where  $B = C_m A^{-e} = A^{\text{isk}}$ . Then the issuer returns the pair (A, e) along with the proof  $\pi_{\text{issue}}^{\text{dleq}}$  to the user.
- VerifyCred(ipk,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ ,  $\sigma=(A,e)$ ): Compute  $C_m=h_0\prod_i h_i^{m_i}$ . If B=1 return 0. Otherwise, if proof  $\pi_{\text{issue}}^{\text{dleq}}$  is valid return 1 else return 0.
- KeyGen(pp): select  $x \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ , and returns  $(\text{vpk}, \text{vsk}) = (h^x, x)$ .
- GenPolicy( $\mathcal{P}$ ): Parse  $\mathcal{P}$  as  $\{(ipk_j)_{j\in[\ell]}\}$ . Run  $(vpk, vsk) \leftarrow skeyGen(pp)$ . For  $j \in [\ell]$  verify the provided ZKPK  $\pi_{key}$  and if the verification succeeds, certify the issuer j, by computing

$$\sigma_j = (A_j, e_j) = ((g_0 \operatorname{ipk}_j)^{\frac{1}{x+e_j}}, e_j), \text{ where } e_j \in \mathbb{Z}_p \setminus \{-x\}.$$

This algorithm also computes a ZKPK  $\pi_{\text{cert}}^{\text{dleq}} := \text{PoK}\{\alpha: B_j = A_j^{\alpha} \land \text{vpk} = h^{\alpha}\}$  where  $B_j = g_0 \text{ipk}_j A_j^{-e_j} = A_j^{\text{vsk}}$ . We assume that for  $j \in [\ell]$  the verification of  $\pi_{\text{key}}$  succeeds. Output the presentation policy

$$pol = (vpk, \{(ipk_j, \sigma_j, \pi_{cert,j}^{dleq})\}_{j \in [\ell]}).$$

- VerifyPolicy( $\mathcal{P}$ , pol): Parse pol as vpk,  $\{(\mathrm{ipk}_j, \sigma_j, \pi_{\mathrm{cert}, j}^{\mathrm{dleq}})\}_{j \in [\ell]}$ ). For  $j \in [\ell]$  set  $B_j = g_0 \mathrm{ipk}_j A_j^{-e_j} = A_j^x$ . Accept if  $\ell = |\mathcal{P}|$ , and for all  $j \in [\ell]$ ,  $\pi_{\mathrm{cert}, j}^{\mathrm{dleq}}$  is valid.
- Show(ipk<sub>j\*</sub>,  $\sigma$ ,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i=1}^n$ , pol,  $\mathcal{P}$ ): If  $|\mathcal{P}| = 1$ , the Show algorithm in [22] is used, so we assume  $|\mathcal{P}| > 1$ . Parse  $\mathcal{P}$  as  $\{\text{ipk}_j\}_{j \in [\ell]}$ ,  $\sigma$  as (A, e), and  $\sigma_{j*}$  as  $(A_{j*}, e_{j*})$ . Select  $t, r, r_1, r_2 \leftarrow \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ . Compute ipk'<sub>j\*</sub> =  $g^{ty_{j*}}$ , the credential and certificate randomization is the same as in Section 5. In addition to the two zero-knowledge proofs,  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$  and  $\pi_{\text{validity}}$ , compute  $\pi_{\text{rand-cred}}^{\text{dleq}}$

$$\pi_{\text{rand-cred}}^{\text{dleq}} = \text{PoK}\{\alpha : \bar{B} = \bar{A}^{\alpha} \wedge \text{ipk}'_{j^*} = g^{\alpha}\},$$

where  $(\alpha = y'_{j^*} = ty_{j^*})$ , t (respectively  $y_{j^*}$ ) is known only by the user (respectively the issuer). Since the user does not know  $y_{j^*}$ , they cannot compute this proof / OIP  $(\pi^{\text{dleq}}_{\text{rand-cred}})$  themselves. Therefore, they must obtain it anonymously from the issuer. This OIP can be generated using the technique presented by Orrù et al. in [36]. For the sake of simplicity, this technique is not detailed in this paper.

$$vp = (\{m\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, \operatorname{ipk}'_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}, \bar{B}, \bar{D}, \pi_{\operatorname{cert}}, \pi_{\operatorname{validity}}, \pi_{\operatorname{rand-cred}}^{\operatorname{dleq}}).$$

{26}------------------------------------------------

- Verify(ipk, vp,  $\mathcal{D}$ ,  $\{m_i\}_{i\in\mathcal{D}}$ ,  $\mathcal{P}$ ): If  $|\mathcal{P}| = 1$ , the original Verify algorithm in [22] is used, so we assume  $|\mathcal{P}| > 1$ . Parse vp as  $ipk'_{j^*}$ ,  $\bar{A}_{j^*}$ ,  $\bar{B}_{j^*}$ ,  $\bar{A}$ ,  $\bar{B}$ ,  $\bar{D}$ ,  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$ , and  $\pi_{\text{validity}}$ . Accept if (1)  $\bar{A} \neq 1$ , (2) verification of the POKs  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$ ,  $\pi_{\text{validity}}$ , and  $\pi_{\text{rand-cred}}^{\text{dleq}}$  succeeds, and (3) it holds that:

$$\bar{B}_{j^*} = \bar{A}_{j^*}^{\text{vsk}},$$

this last verification can be performed by the RP provided it acts as its own certification authority.

Remark 6. It is important to note that the same approach can be extended to PS-based anonymous credentials [38] and to PS-MAC [16] in order to achieve, respectively, pairing-based issuer-hiding anonymous credentials and pairing-free anonymous credentials. This can be done using structure-preserving signatures, such as the one proposed by Fuchsbauer et al. [28], for the policy definition. However, since the protocols based on BBS signatures appear to be more appealing within the context of EUDIW, and considering the ongoing standardization process of BBS signatures at the IETF, we have chosen to focus this work on BBS.

#### 6.2 Security Analysis

Unforgeability. The proof of unforgeability can be derived from that of the pairing-based construction, but it is much simpler. This is because, for the type-1 adversary, it is easy to recover  $y_{j^*}$  using the OIP extractor.

Issuer-hiding Anonymity. The issuer-hiding anonymity proof also follows from that of the pairing-based construction.

### 7 Performance Evaluation

In this section, we analyze the computational complexity of our paring-free issuer-hiding scheme and compare it to a recent scheme by Flamini et al [27], and Katz and Sefranek [32], focusing on computational complexity and size.

Size Complexity Table 1 summarizes the sizes of the various elements across the respective constructions. When comparing the policies denoted in the table as  $pk_{pol}$ , we observe that all three constructions have similar sizes, though our construction is slightly less compact. However, we note that, unlike the other two, our construction is not vulnerable to the attacks described in this paper.

Computational Complexity Table 2 focuses on the computational cost of critical operations specifically, proof generation and verification, across the three schemes. All three protocols exhibit comparable efficiency in terms of proof generation, though the construction by Katz and Sefranek is slightly more efficient than the other two. However, our verification procedure is more efficient, as it avoids pairing computations entirely.

{27}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-27-0"></span>

| Scheme | pkpol                                | skpol | Proof                            |
|--------|--------------------------------------|-------|----------------------------------|
| [32]   | (1 +  P ) G2 <br>+ 3 Zp              | 2 Zp  | 3 G1 <br>+ 1 G2 <br>+ (3 + n) Zp |
| [27]   | P  G2 <br>+ 2 G1                     | ✗     | 2 G1 <br>+ 2 G2 <br>+ (n + 1) Zp |
|        | Our paper (1 +  P ) G1 <br>+ 2 P  Zp | ✗     | 6 G1 <br>+ (n + 6) Zp            |

Table 1: Size complexities in terms of elements in G1, G2, and Z<sup>p</sup> assuming one disclosed attribute, where n is the number of attributes.

Overall, regarding computational complexity, our protocol achieves the lowest total cost compared to the schemes of Flamini et al., and Katz and Sefranek. By offering competitive performance in proof generation while substantially reducing verification overhead, our approach is particularly well-suited for practical, resource-constrained devices (which do not support pairing computations) and applications.

| Scheme    | Proof generation       | Verification        |
|-----------|------------------------|---------------------|
| [32]      | (n + 6)exp1<br>+ 1exp2 | (n + 5)exp1<br>+ 2p |
| [27]      | (n + 5)exp1<br>+ 2exp2 | (n + 1)exp1<br>+ 2p |
| Our paper | (n + 14)exp1           | (n + 13)exp1        |

<span id="page-27-1"></span>Table 2: Computational complexities in terms of exponentiations in G1, G2, and pairing operations p, assuming one disclosed attribute.

In conclusion, we can state that, in terms of both storage and computational complexity, our scheme is more efficient than the scheme recently introduced construction by Flamini et al. [\[27\]](#page-30-4), and Katz and Sefranek in [\[32\]](#page-31-4).

## 8 Conclusion

In this paper, we have highlighted some of the limitations of the approach introduced by Sanders and Traoré, and adopted by Katz and Sefranek to achieve issuer-hiding in BBS-based AC systems. By presenting specific attacks against the Katz and Sefranek BBS-based issuer-hiding AC systems, we have also demonstrated that these attacks apply to the approach of Sanders and Traoré. These attacks are presented within realistic scenarios to demonstrate their relevance to real-world applications, such as digital identity systems.

Furthermore, we address some open questions as future work by Katz and Sefranek by proposing an improved BBS-based issuer-hiding anonymous credential scheme. Our approach mitigates the attacks identified earlier by adopting a more standard policy definition approach, namely the signed policy. This allows us to eliminate the need for secret policy keys and to prove the security of our construction within the AGM framework. Another key improvement over the Katz and Sefranek scheme is that the policy can be defined by either the verifier

{28}------------------------------------------------

or a certification authority in our construction. Additionally, anyone can verify a presentation, not only a designated verifier, as in the Katz and Sefranek construction.

We also introduce the first pairing-free issuer-hiding BBS-based AC system. Moreover, we demonstrate how the same approach can be adapted to achieve pairing-free AC based on PS signatures. Our construction is shown to be more efficient than that of Katz and Sefranek, supported by implementation benchmarks that illustrate its performance in real-world scenarios. We prove the security of our scheme in the AGM and show that it achieves both unforgeability and everlasting anonymity.

The main advantage of our construction is that it is solely based on BBS signatures, which makes it highly likely to be adopted within the European Digital Identity Wallet (EUDIW) framework as an addition to existing candidates and as a potential future IETF standard. This positions our scheme as a practical solution for privacy-preserving authentication systems.

{29}------------------------------------------------

# Bibliography

- <span id="page-29-3"></span>[1] Au, M.H., Susilo, W., Mu, Y.: Constant-size dynamic k-taa. In: Security and Cryptography for Networks: 5th International Conference, SCN 2006, Maiori, Italy, September 6-8, 2006. Proceedings 5. pp. 111–125. Springer (2006)
- <span id="page-29-4"></span>[2] Baldimtsi, F., Lysyanskaya, A.: Anonymous credentials light. In: Proceedings of the 2013 ACM SIGSAC conference on Computer & communications security. pp. 1087–1098 (2013)
- <span id="page-29-8"></span>[3] Barki, A., Brunet, S., Desmoulins, N., Traoré, J.: Improved algebraic macs and practical keyed-verification anonymous credentials. In: Selected Areas in Cryptography–SAC 2016: 23rd International Conference, St. John's, NL, Canada, August 10-12, 2016, Revised Selected Papers 23. pp. 360–380. Springer (2017)
- <span id="page-29-11"></span>[4] Berlekamp, E.R.: Factoring Polynomials Over Finite Fields. Bell System Technical Journal 46(8), 1853–1859 (Oct 1967). [https://doi.org/10.1002/j.](https://doi.org/10.1002/j.1538-7305.1967.tb03174.x) [1538-7305.1967.tb03174.x](https://doi.org/10.1002/j.1538-7305.1967.tb03174.x), [https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6768643) [6768643](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6768643)
- <span id="page-29-6"></span>[5] Bicer, O., Kupcu, A.: Versatile ABS: Usage Limited, Revocable, Threshold Traceable, Authority Hiding, Decentralized Attribute Based Signatures (2019), <https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/203>
- <span id="page-29-7"></span>[6] Bobolz, J., Eidens, F., Krenn, S., Ramacher, S., Samelin, K.: Issuer-Hiding Attribute-Based Credentials. In: Conti, M., Stevens, M., Krenn, S. (eds.) Cryptology and Network Security. pp. 158–178. Springer International Publishing, Cham (2021). [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-92548-2\\_9](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-92548-2_9)
- <span id="page-29-9"></span>[7] Boneh, D., Boyen, X., Shacham, H.: Short group signatures. In: Annual international cryptology conference. pp. 41–55. Springer (2004)
- <span id="page-29-5"></span>[8] Bosk, D., Frey, D., Gestin, M., Piolle, G.: Hidden Issuer Anonymous Credential. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2022(4), 571– 607 (Oct 2022). <https://doi.org/10.56553/popets-2022-0123>, [https:](https://petsymposium.org/popets/2022/popets-2022-0123.php) [//petsymposium.org/popets/2022/popets-2022-0123.php](https://petsymposium.org/popets/2022/popets-2022-0123.php)
- <span id="page-29-0"></span>[9] Brands, S.A.: Rethinking Public Key Infrastructures and Digital Certificates: Building in Privacy. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA (Aug 2000)
- <span id="page-29-10"></span>[10] Camenisch, J., Drijvers, M., Lehmann, A.: Anonymous attestation using the strong diffie hellman assumption revisited. In: Trust and Trustworthy Computing: 9th International Conference, TRUST 2016, Vienna, Austria, August 29-30, 2016, Proceedings 9. pp. 1–20. Springer (2016)
- <span id="page-29-1"></span>[11] Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A.: An Efficient System for Non-transferable Anonymous Credentials with Optional Anonymity Revocation. In: Pfitzmann, B. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology — EUROCRYPT 2001. pp. 93–118. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2001). [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44987-6_7) [3-540-44987-6\\_7](https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-44987-6_7)
- <span id="page-29-2"></span>[12] Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A.: A signature scheme with efficient protocols. In: Security in Communication Networks: Third International Conference,

{30}------------------------------------------------

- SCN 2002 Amalfi, Italy, September 11–13, 2002 Revised Papers 3. pp. 268– 289. Springer (2003)
- <span id="page-30-2"></span>[13] Camenisch, J., Lysyanskaya, A.: Signature schemes and anonymous credentials from bilinear maps. In: Annual international cryptology conference. pp. 56–72. Springer (2004)
- <span id="page-30-12"></span>[14] Camenisch, J., Stadler, M.: Efficient group signature schemes for large groups. In: Annual international cryptology conference. pp. 410–424. Springer (1997)
- <span id="page-30-10"></span>[15] Chairattana-Apirom, R., Harding, F., Lysyanskaya, A., Tessaro, S.: Serveraided anonymous credentials. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2025/513 (2025)
- <span id="page-30-7"></span>[16] Chase, M., Meiklejohn, S., Zaverucha, G.: Algebraic macs and keyedverification anonymous credentials. In: Proceedings of the 2014 acm sigsac conference on computer and communications security. pp. 1205–1216 (2014)
- <span id="page-30-0"></span>[17] Chaum, D.: Security without identification: Transaction systems to make big brother obsolete. Communications of the ACM 28(10), 1030–1044 (1985)
- <span id="page-30-1"></span>[18] Chaum, D.: Showing Credentials Without Identification. In: Pichler, F. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology — EUROCRYPT' 85. pp. 241–244. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (1986). [https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39805-8\\_28](https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-39805-8_28)
- <span id="page-30-13"></span>[19] Chaum, D., Pedersen, T.P.: Wallet databases with observers. In: Annual international cryptology conference. pp. 89–105. Springer (1992)
- <span id="page-30-3"></span>[20] Connolly, A., Lafourcade, P., Perez Kempner, O.: Improved Constructions of Anonymous Credentials from Structure-Preserving Signatures on Equivalence Classes. In: Hanaoka, G., Shikata, J., Watanabe, Y. (eds.) Public-Key Cryptography – PKC 2022. pp. 409–438. Springer International Publishing, Cham (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-97121-2\\_15](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-97121-2_15)
- <span id="page-30-6"></span>[21] Cramer, R., Damgård, I., Schoenmakers, B.: Proofs of Partial Knowledge and Simplified Design of Witness Hiding Protocols. In: Desmedt, Y.G. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology — CRYPTO '94. pp. 174–187. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (1994). [https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48658-5\\_19](https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-48658-5_19)
- <span id="page-30-9"></span>[22] Desmoulins, N., Dumanois, A., Kane, S., Traoré, J.: Making BBS Anonymous Credentials eIDAS 2.0 Compliant (2025), [https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/](https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/619) [619](https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/619)
- <span id="page-30-14"></span>[23] Doerner, J., Kondi, Y., Lee, E., shelat, a., Tyner, L.: Threshold BBS+ Signatures for Distributed Anonymous Credential Issuance (2023), [https:](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/602) [//eprint.iacr.org/2023/602](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/602)
- <span id="page-30-5"></span>[24] Elkhiyaoui, K., Caro, A.D., Androulaki, E.: Multi-Issuer Anonymous Credentials Without a Root Authority (2021), [https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1669) [1669](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1669)
- <span id="page-30-8"></span>[25] EU, c.: Architecture and reference framework - EUDI Wallet (2021), [https://eu-digital-identity-wallet.github.io/](https://eu-digital-identity-wallet.github.io/eudi-doc-architecture-and-reference-framework/1.1.0/arf/) [eudi-doc-architecture-and-reference-framework/1.1.0/arf/](https://eu-digital-identity-wallet.github.io/eudi-doc-architecture-and-reference-framework/1.1.0/arf/)
- <span id="page-30-11"></span>[26] Fiat, A., Shamir, A.: How to prove yourself: Practical solutions to identification and signature problems. In: Conference on the theory and application of cryptographic techniques. pp. 186–194. Springer (1986)
- <span id="page-30-4"></span>[27] Flamini, A., Friedrichs, K., Lehmann, A.: Issuer-hiding for BBS anonymous credentials via randomizable keys. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2026/369 (2026), <https://eprint.iacr.org/2026/369>

{31}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-31-1"></span>[28] Fuchsbauer, G., Hanser, C., Slamanig, D.: Structure-preserving signatures on equivalence classes and constant-size anonymous credentials. Journal of Cryptology 32, 498–546 (2019)
- <span id="page-31-8"></span>[29] Fuchsbauer, G., Kiltz, E., Loss, J.: The algebraic group model and its applications. In: Advances in Cryptology–CRYPTO 2018: 38th Annual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 19–23, 2018, Proceedings, Part II 38. pp. 33–62. Springer (2018)
- <span id="page-31-9"></span>[30] Goldwasser, S., Micali, S., Rackoff, C.: The knowledge complexity of interactive proof-systems. In: Providing sound foundations for cryptography: On the work of shafi goldwasser and silvio micali, pp. 203–225 (2019)
- <span id="page-31-7"></span>[31] Groth, J.: Efficient fully structure-preserving signatures for large messages. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2015/824 (2015), [https://eprint.iacr.](https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/824) [org/2015/824](https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/824)
- <span id="page-31-4"></span>[32] Katz, J., Sefranek, M.: Issuer hiding for BBS-based anonymous credentials. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2025/2080 (2025), [https://eprint.iacr.](https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/2080) [org/2025/2080](https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/2080)
- <span id="page-31-3"></span>[33] Looker, T., Kalos, V., Whitehead, A., Lodder, M.: The BBS Signature Scheme. Internet-Draft draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures-05, Internet Engineering Task Force (Dec 2023), work in Progress
- <span id="page-31-13"></span>[34] Looker, T., Kalos, V., Whitehead, A., Lodder, M.: The BBS Signature Scheme. Internet-Draft draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures-09, Internet Engineering Task Force (Jul 2025), [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures/09/) [draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures/09/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-bbs-signatures/09/), work in Progress
- <span id="page-31-6"></span>[35] Mir, O., Bauer, B., Griffy, S., Lysyanskaya, A., Slamanig, D.: Aggregate Signatures with Versatile Randomization and Issuer-Hiding Multi-Authority Anonymous Credentials (2023), <https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1016>
- <span id="page-31-11"></span>[36] Orrù, M., Tessaro, S., Zaverucha, G., Zhu, C.: Oblivious issuance of proofs. In: Annual International Cryptology Conference. pp. 254–287. Springer (2024)
- <span id="page-31-10"></span>[37] Orrù, M.: Revisiting keyed-verification anonymous credentials. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/1552 (2024)
- <span id="page-31-0"></span>[38] Pointcheval, D., Sanders, O.: Short randomizable signatures. In: Topics in Cryptology-CT-RSA 2016: The Cryptographers' Track at the RSA Conference 2016, San Francisco, CA, USA, February 29-March 4, 2016, Proceedings. pp. 111–126. Springer (2016)
- <span id="page-31-2"></span>[39] Sanders, O.: Efficient redactable signature and application to anonymous credentials. In: IACR International Conference on Public-Key Cryptography. pp. 628–656. Springer (2020)
- <span id="page-31-5"></span>[40] Sanders, O., Traoré, J.: Compact Issuer-Hiding Authentication, Application to Anonymous Credential (2023), <https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1845>
- <span id="page-31-12"></span>[41] Tessaro, S., Zhu, C.: Revisiting bbs signatures. In: Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques. pp. 691–721. Springer (2023)

{32}------------------------------------------------

#### Attacks on some issuer-hiding ACs Α

#### Weaknesses of Bosk et al. Issuer Hiding AC Scheme [8] $\mathbf{A.1}$

Below we provide a short description of the scheme of Bosk et al. of (PETS 2022). Let  $(p, G_1, G_2, G_T, g_1, g_2)$  be a bilinear environment. We denote by pol the set of issuers trusted by the verifier and by l the cardinality of pol. Let  $(x_i, y_i) \in \mathbb{Z}_p^2$ be the private key of the issuer  $I_i$  for  $i \in [1, l]$ , and let  $X_i = g_2^{x_i}$ ,  $\overline{X}_i = g_1^{1/x_i}$ ,  $Y_i = g_2^{y_i}, \overline{Y}_i = g_1^{1/y_i}$  be its corresponding public key.

Generation of the policy The verifier V proceeds as follows to define its key pair, that is, a secret key  $sk_{pol}$  and a public key  $pk_{pol}$ , for its policy pol:

```
- Choose at random (x,y) \in \mathbb{Z}_p^2;
```

- For  $i \in [1, l]$ , compute  $W_i = \overline{X}_i^x = g_1^{x/x_i}$ ;
- For  $i \in [1, l]$ , compute  $W_i' = \overline{Y}_i^y = g_1^{y/y_i}$ ;
- Set  $sk_{pol} = (x, y)$  and publish or send  $pk_{pol} = \{\overline{X}_i, \overline{Y}_i, W_i, W_i'\}_{i=1}^l.$

Credential issuance The PS signature scheme [38] is used by Issuers to issue credentials to users. To issue a credential  $\sigma$  to user U on their attributes att, the issuer  $I_i$  proceeds as follows:

- Choose at random two random generators  $h_1$  and  $h_2$  of  $G_1$ ; Compute  $\sigma_1 = h_1^{x_i + y_i R \cdot H(att)}$  and  $\sigma_2 = h_2^{x_i + y_i R \cdot H(H(att))}$ , where R is a random value chosen by U and H is a secure hash function;
- Set  $\sigma = (\sigma_1, \sigma_2, h_1, h_2)$ .

Presentation If U wants to anonymously show (i.e., without revealing the identity of the credential Issuer) their credential on their attributes att to V, they generate at random  $r_u, r_{u,x}, r_{u,y} \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and compute using  $pk_{pol}$  and their credential:

$$X_{i}^{'} = X_{i}^{r_{u}} = g_{2}^{x_{i} \cdot r_{u}}$$

$$Z_{i} = W_{i}^{r_{u,x}} = g_{1}^{x \cdot r_{u,x}/x_{i}}$$

$$h_{x} = g_{2}^{r_{u,x} \cdot r_{u}}$$

$$Y_{i}^{'} = Y_{i}^{r_{u}R} = g_{2}^{y_{i} \cdot r_{u}R}$$

$$Z_{i}^{'} = W_{i}^{'r_{u,y}} = g_{1}^{y \cdot r_{u,y}/y_{i}}$$

$$h_{y} = g_{2}^{r_{u,y} \cdot r_{u} \cdot R}$$

A randomized version  $\sigma'$  of the credential  $\sigma$  is also generated using  $r_u$ , R, and new random values; this is done using the classical technique to randomize PS signatures. The presentation consists of  $(X_i', Z_i, Y_i', Z_i', h_x, h_y, \sigma')$ .

{33}------------------------------------------------

Verification The verifier V can verify, using  $sk_{pol}$ , the validity of this presentation by checking that:

$$e(Z_{i}, X_{i}') = e(g_{1}^{x}, h_{x})$$
  
 $e(Z_{i}', Y_{i}') = e(g_{1}^{y}, h_{y})$ 

The verification of the randomized credential  $\sigma'$  is done as usual using the verification algorithm of PS signatures. The above pairing equations are used by V to check whether the user makes use of a valid issuer's public key (i.e., a public key that belongs to an issuer in pol). In their paper, Bosk et al. consider the possibility that an issuer may act maliciously (see Footnote 2). One could argue that a malicious issuer could issue fake credentials to any user they choose (for example, they could provide proof of majority to a minor). However, they would risk this fraud being discovered if the fake credentials were ever revealed. Even worse, an unscrupulous user could blackmail the issuer by threatening to expose the fake credentials. Therefore, such fraud (that is issuing fake credentials) does not seem very plausible.

The attacks we describe below are completely different in that they are undetectable. This means that the identity provider responsible for them cannot be identified. More precisely, they will enable a malicious issuer and a dishonest user to deceive the verifier into accepting a credential issued with a public key that is not included in  $pk_{pol}$ .

First attack A malicious issuer  $I_j$  in pol could use its witnesses  $W_j = \overline{X}_j^x = g_1^{x/x_j}$  and  $W_j' = \overline{Y}_j^y = g_1^{y/y_j}$  as well as its private key  $(x_j, y_j)$  to compute  $S = g_1^x = W_j^{x_j}$  and  $S' = g_1^y = W_j^{y_j}$ , then disclose these two values S and S'. Using these values, anyone could compute false valid witnesses,  $W = S^{1/x^*} = g_1^{x/x^*}$  and  $W' = S'^{1/y^*} = g_1^{y/y^*}$ , for a private key  $(x^*, y^*)$  of their choice. With  $(x^*, y^*)$ , they could then forge credentials on attributes of their choice that would be accepted by the verifier V whose secret key is  $sk_{pol} = (x, y)$ . The pair of keys  $(x^*, y^*)$  does not correspond to the private key of any legitimate issuer. It would also be impossible for the verifier to identify the issuer responsible for the fraud (i.e., the one who disclosed S and S'). To thwart this attack, Bosk et al. suggest that the verifier choose a new secret key  $sk_{pol}$  for each verifiable presentation with a user. However, this would not be practical, as the verifier would have to manage many secrets and generate a new public key  $pk_{pol}$  (denoted Agg = (S, W) in their paper) for each presentation.

In section 6.2.1, Bosk et al. propose an alternative solution: "Our interactive aggregator version modifies the Gen and WitCreate algorithms in Protocol 1. It modifies the witnesses making sure that no malicious issuer can output the verifier's private key by computing  $W_l^{x_l} = g_1^{x_l}$ " (that is,  $S = g_1^x = W_j^{x_j}$  and  $S' = g_1^y = W_j^{y_j}$  with our notations). They therefore propose to compute the witnesses  $W_j$  and  $W_j'$  as follows:

{34}------------------------------------------------

$$W_{j} = g_{1}^{x(1+\frac{1}{x_{j}})}$$
 and  $W_{j}' = g_{1}^{y(1+\frac{1}{y_{j}})}$ 

Nevertheless, it is still relatively straightforward for a dishonest issuer to retrieve  $S=g_1^x=W_j^{\frac{x_j}{x_j+1}}$  and  $S'=g_1^y=W_j^{\frac{y_j}{y_j+1}}$ , even with this modified version of the witnesses. Once again, if they want to protect themselves from this attack, verifiers will not be exempt from choosing a new secret key  $sk_{pol}$  for each verifiable presentation with a user.

**Second attack** If the verifier used a new secret key  $sk_{pol} = (x_{new}, y_{new})$  for each presentation, the previous attack would be difficult to implement. Indeed, dishonest users would need to interact systematically with the malicious issuer to obtain the values  $S = g_1^{x_{new}}$  and  $S' = g_1^{y_{new}}$  corresponding to the new secret key  $sk_{pol}$ . Therefore, we propose an alternative attack in which the issuer publishes a set of values that dishonest users can later use to both reconstruct S and S' and generate fake credentials for arbitrary attributes. This can be done without users having to interact with the malicious issuer (and without the latter having to reveal its private key). The attack works as follows, with the malicious issuer  $I_i$  with private keys  $(x_i, y_i) \in \mathbb{Z}_p^2$ :

- chooses at random  $x^*, y^*, R_1^*, R_2^*, R_3^*, R_4^* \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ ;
- computes

$$\tilde{x} = \frac{x_i \cdot R_2^*}{x^*}, \quad \tilde{x}' = R_1^* x^*$$

$$h_1' = g_2^{R_1^* \cdot R_2^*}$$

$$\tilde{y} = \frac{y_i \cdot R_4^*}{y^*}, \quad \tilde{y}' = R_3^* y^*$$

$$h_2' = g_2^{R_3^* \cdot R_4^*}$$

The malicious issuer then sends

$$S_{malicious} = (\tilde{x}, \tilde{x}', h_1', \tilde{y}, \tilde{y}', h_2')$$

to the dishonest user U. Using  $\tilde{x}'$  and  $\tilde{y}'$ , U can sign any message m. U will then be able to forge credentials for arbitrary attributes att that will be accepted by any verifier V. If U wants to anonymously show their (fake) credential on their attributes att to V, they generate at random  $r_u, r_{u,x}, r_{u,y}, R \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and compute using  $pk_{pol}$  (namely the values  $W_i$  and  $W_i'$  corresponding to the malicious issuer  $I_i$ ), the set  $S_{malicious}$  and their fake credential:

{35}------------------------------------------------

$$\begin{split} X_{i}^{'} &= g_{2}^{\tilde{x}^{'} \cdot r_{u}} = g_{2}^{r_{u}R_{1}^{*}x^{*}} \\ Z_{i} &= W_{i}^{r_{u,x}\tilde{x}} = g_{1}^{\frac{x \cdot r_{u,x}R_{2}^{*}}{x^{*}}} \\ h_{x}^{*} &= h_{1}^{'} \cdot r_{u}r_{u,x} = g_{2}^{R_{1}^{*}R_{2}^{*}r_{u,x}r_{u}} \\ Y_{i}^{'} &= g_{2}^{\tilde{y}^{'} \cdot r_{u}R} = g_{2}^{r_{u}R_{3}^{*}y^{*}R} \\ Z_{i}^{'} &= W_{i}^{'r_{u,y}\tilde{y}} = g_{1}^{\frac{y \cdot r_{u,y}R_{4}^{*}}{y^{*}}} \\ h_{y}^{*} &= h_{2}^{'} \cdot r_{u}r_{u,y}R = g_{2}^{R_{3}^{*}R_{4}^{*}r_{u,y}r_{u}R} \end{split}$$

and sends  $(X_i^{'}, Z_i, Y_i^{'}, Z_i^{'}, h_x^*, h_y^*)$  along with the fake credential to the verifier. Again, the attack works, as:

$$e(Z_{i}, X_{i}') = e(g_{1}^{x}, h_{x}^{*})$$
  
 $e(Z_{i}', Y_{i}') = e(g_{1}^{y}, h_{y}^{*})$ 

#### Weaknesses of IHBBS1 from (eprint report 2026/369) [27] $\mathbf{A.2}$

In [27], Flamini et al. show how to add issuer-hiding to BBS-based credentials. They use a technique similar to that employed by Bosk et al. [8] to hide the issuer of a credential among a set of issuers. This technique is referred to as an "aggregator" in [8] and a "tag" in [27]. A tag scheme can be seen as a relaxed variant of a signature scheme.

Below we provide a short description of IHBBS1.

Let  $(p, G_1, G_2, G_T, g_1, g_2)$  be a bilinear environment. We denote by pol the set of issuers trusted by the verifier and by l the cardinality of pol.

Let  $x_i \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  be the private key of the issuer  $I_i$  for  $i \in [1, l]$ , and let  $X_i = g_2^{x_i}$ be its corresponding BBS public key.

Generation of the policy A trusted authority A proceeds as follows to define its key pair, that is a secret key  $sk_{pol}$  and a public key  $pk_{pol}$ , for the policy pol:

- Choose at random  $x \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  and a random generator G in  $G_1$ ;
- Compute  $T = G^{1/x}$ ;
- For  $i \in [1, l]$ , compute  $W_i = X_i^{1/x} = g_2^{x_i/x}$ ; Set  $sk_{pol} = x$  and publish  $pk_{pol} = (G, T, \{W_i\}_{i=1}^l)$ .

Credential issuance The BBS signature scheme [41] is used by issuers to issue credentials to users. Let  $(h_1, h_2, \ldots, h_n)$  be n public generators of  $G_1$ . To issue a credential  $\sigma$  to user U on their attributes  $att = (a_1, a_2, \dots, a_n)$ , the issuer  $I_i$ proceeds as follows:

- Choose at random  $e \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ ; Compute  $C = g_1 \prod_{j=1}^n h_j^{a_j}$  and  $A = C^{1/(x_i + e)}$ ; Set  $\sigma = (A, e)$ .

{36}------------------------------------------------

Presentation To anonymously show (i.e., without revealing the identity of the credential issuer) their credential on their attributes att to a verifier V, U proceeds as follows:

- Choose at random  $\alpha \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ ;
- Randomize the issuer's public key  $X_i$  and its corresponding tag  $W_i$  using  $\alpha$ :  $X^* = X_i^{\alpha}$  and  $T^* = W_i^{\alpha}$ ;
- Randomize the credential  $\sigma = (A, e)$  using  $\alpha$ :  $\sigma^* = (A^{1/\alpha}, \alpha e)$ ;
- Generate, using classical BBS techniques, a zero-knowledge proof of knowledge  $\pi$  proving the knowledge of a credential  $\sigma^*$  on att that is valid under the public key  $X^*$ .

The presentation consists of  $(X^*, T^*, \pi)$ .

Verification The verifier V can verify, using  $pk_{pol}$ , the validity of this presentation by checking that:

$$e(T, X^*) = e(G, T^*)$$

The generation and verification of the proof  $\pi$  are done as usual using the showing and verification algorithms of BBS. The above pairing equation is used by V to check whether the user makes use of a valid issuer's public key (i.e., a public key that belongs to an issuer in pol). The attack described below is similar to that against Bosk et al.'s scheme [8]. This is understandable, given that both schemes employ the same technique to hide the issuer's public key (an aggregator or tag). As with Bosk et al. [8], we again consider the possibility that an issuer may act maliciously (see footnote 2 in [8]). One could argue that a malicious issuer could issue fake credentials to any user they choose in any case (for example, they could provide proof of majority to a minor). However, they would risk this fraud being discovered if the fake credentials were ever revealed. Even worse, an unscrupulous user could blackmail the issuer by threatening to expose the fake credentials. Therefore, such fraud (that is issuing fake credentials) does not seem very plausible.

The attack we describe below is completely different in that it is undetectable. This means that the malicious issuer cannot be identified. More precisely, our attack will enable a malicious issuer and a dishonest user to deceive the verifier into accepting a (fake) credential issued with a public key that is not included in  $pk_{pol}$ .

The attack A malicious issuer  $I_i$  in pol could use its witnesses  $W_i = X_i^{1/x} = g_2^{x_i/x}$  as well as its private key  $x_i$  to compute  $\tilde{W} = g_2^{1/x} = W_i^{1/x_i}$  and then disclose  $\tilde{W}$ . Using  $\tilde{W}$ , anyone could compute false valid witnesses,  $T^* = \tilde{W}^{x^*} = g_2^{x^*/x}$ , for a private key  $x^*$  of their choice. With  $x^*$ , they could then forge credentials on attributes of their choice that would be accepted by the verifier V. Indeed, the fake public key  $X^* = g_2^{x^*}$  will be accepted as valid by any verifier (i.e., belonging to an issuer in the policy pol) as:

{37}------------------------------------------------

$$e(T, X^*) = e(G, T^*)$$

The private key  $x^*$  does not correspond to the private key of any legitimate issuer. It would also be impossible for the verifier to identify the issuer responsible for this fraud (i.e., the one who disclosed  $\tilde{W}$ ). It does not seem easy to counteract the above attack unless the scheme is modified to use a secure digital signature scheme rather than a tag-based authentication scheme to authenticate the public keys of the issuers in pol. This is the option we chose for both of our issuer-hiding constructions: we use BBS to authenticate the issuers' public keys. Therefore, they are not susceptible to an attack involving a malicious issuer.

## B Proofs

#### B.1 Proof of Theorem 1

## Proof of Unforgeability.

Proof. (sketch)

Let  $\mathcal{A}$  be a P.P.T adversary against the unforgeability of our protocol, and let  $EXT = \{EXT_{setup}, EXT_{user}, EXT_{cert}, EXT_{validity}\}$ . We define the extractors for the credential system as follows.

- EXT<sub>setup</sub> receives as input  $(ipk_j, i\tilde{p}k_j, \pi_{setup})$  and recovers a witness  $isk_j$  for the instance  $(ipk_j, i\tilde{p}k_j)$  such that  $ipk = g^{isk_j} \wedge i\tilde{p}k_j = \tilde{g}^{isk_j}$ . If the extraction fails, meaning if  $\pi_{setup}$  passes the verification but the extractor fails to output a valid witness  $(isk_j, such that ipk = g^{isk_j} \wedge i\tilde{p}k_j = \tilde{g}^{isk_j})$ , then
- the extractor aborts. Let BadExtract<sub>setup</sub> be the event that  $\mathcal{A}$  wins but the extractor fails to output a valid witness.

   EXT<sub>user</sub> receives as input (upk,  $\pi_{user}$ ) and the user attribute  $\{m_i\}_1^n$  recovers a witness usk for the instance upk such that upk =  $g^{usk}$ .
  - If the extraction fails, then the extractor aborts. Let
  - $BadExtract_{issue}$  be the event that A wins but the extractor fails to output a valid witness
- EXT<sub>cert</sub> receives as input  $(\tilde{\text{vpk}}, \tilde{\text{ipk}}'_j, \bar{B}_j, \bar{A}_j, \pi_{\text{cert}})$  and recovers a witness  $(t', r, e_j)$  for the instance  $(\tilde{\text{vpk}}, \tilde{\text{ipk}}'_j, \bar{B}_j, \bar{A}_j)$  such that  $\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}_j, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}_j, \tilde{\text{vpk}})$ , and  $\bar{B}_j$  was well formed given the provided instance. From the recovered witness the adversary can recover  $\tilde{\text{ipk}}_j$ .
  - If the extraction fails, then the extractor abort. Let
  - $BadExtract_{cert}$  be the event that A wins but the extractor fails to output a valid witness.
- EXT<sub>validity</sub> receives as input  $(\mathcal{D}, ipk_j, i\tilde{p}k_j', \bar{B}, \bar{A}, \bar{D}, \pi_{validity})$  and recovers a witness  $(e, \hat{t}, r_3, \{m_i\}_i^n)$  for the instance  $(ipk_j, ipk_j', \bar{B}_j, \bar{A}_j, \mathcal{D})$  such that the disclosed message satisfies some predicate,  $\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, i\tilde{p}k_j)$ , and  $\bar{B}$  was well formed given the provided instance. From the recovered witness the adversary can recover  $ipk_j$ .

{38}------------------------------------------------

If the extraction fails, then the extractor aborts. Let  $BadExtract_{validity}$  be the event that A wins but the extractor fails to output a valid witness.

 $\mathcal{A}$  wins if one of the following happens:

- (1) The adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  returns  $(ipk_j, i\tilde{p}k_j, \pi_{setup})$  such that  $\pi_{setup}$  verifies for the statement  $(ipk_j, i\tilde{p}k_j)$  but extraction failed, which correspond to the event BadExtract<sub>setup</sub>.
- (2)  $\mathcal{A}$  returns  $\mu = (\text{upk}, \pi_{\text{user}})$  such that  $\pi_{\text{user}}$  verifies for upk but extraction failed, which corresponds to the event BadExtract<sub>issue</sub>.
- (3)  $\mathcal{A}$  returns  $\rho_1^* = (\mathrm{ipk}_{j^*}', \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \pi_{\mathrm{cert}}^*)$  such that  $\pi_{\mathrm{cert}}$  verifies for the statement  $(\mathrm{ipk}_{j^*}', \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*})$  but extraction failed, which corresponds to the event BadExtract<sub>cert</sub>.
- (4)  $\mathcal{A}$  returns  $(\mathcal{D}, \rho_2^* = (\bar{B}^*, \bar{A}^*, \bar{D}^*, \pi_{\text{validity}}^*))$  such that  $\pi_{\text{validity}}^*$  verifies for the statement  $(\mathcal{D}, \bar{B}^*, \bar{A}^*, \bar{D}^*)$  but extraction failed, which correspond to the event BadExtract<sub>validity</sub>.
- (5) The presentation returned  $\rho_1^* = (\operatorname{ipk}_{j^*}', \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \pi_{\operatorname{cert}}^*)$  by the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  satisfies the verification, and we have  $\operatorname{ipk}_{j^*} \notin \mathcal{P}^*$  ( $\operatorname{ipk}_{j^*}$ , is the de-randomized version of  $\operatorname{ipk}_{j^*}'$ ). Lets denote this event CertForge.
- (6) The presentation returned  $\rho_2^* = (\bar{B}^*, \bar{A}^*, \bar{D}^*, \pi_{\text{validity}}^*)$  by  $\mathcal{A}$  satisfies the verification, and we have  $\mathbf{m}^* \notin Q_{\text{issue}}$ . Lets denote this event CredForge.

Therefore we can quantify the advantage of A, by the following:

```
\begin{aligned} \mathsf{Adv}^{uf}_{\mathcal{A}}(1^{\lambda}) &\leq \Pr[\mathrm{CertForge}] + \Pr[\mathrm{CredForge}] + \Pr[\mathrm{BadExtract}_{\mathrm{setup}}] + \\ \Pr[\mathrm{BadExtract}_{\mathrm{issue}}] + \Pr[\mathrm{BadExtract}_{\mathrm{cert}}] + \Pr[\mathrm{BadExtract}_{\mathrm{validity}}]. \end{aligned}
```

Items (1), (2), (3), and (4) can be reduced to knowledge soundness (ksnd) of the corresponding PoKs. Therefore  $Pr[BadExtract_{setup}]$ ,

 $\Pr[BadExtract_{issue}], \Pr[BadExtract_{cert}], \text{ and } \Pr[BadExtract_{validity}]$  correspond respectively to the quantities  $\mathsf{Adv}_{EXT,\pi_{setup}}^{ksnd}(1^{\lambda}),$ 

$$\mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ksnd}}_{\mathrm{EXT},\pi_{\mathrm{user}}}(1^{\lambda}), \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ksnd}}_{\mathrm{EXT},\pi_{\mathrm{cert}}}(1^{\lambda}), \text{ and } \\ \mathsf{Adv}^{\mathrm{ksnd}}_{\mathrm{EXT},\pi_{\mathrm{validity}}}(1^{\lambda}).$$

Now it remain to study the case of the item (5) and (6), which reduces both to the unforgeability of BBS. To do so we build a reduction  $\mathcal{B}$  against the SUF-CMA security of BBS, which uses  $\mathcal{A}$  as a black box. We consider two types of adversaries Type-1 which corresponds to the item (5) meaning the event CertForge, and a Type-2 adversaries which corresponds to the item (6) meaning the event CredForge.

– Type-1 adversaries: Our adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  is an algebraic adversary, which means that when  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a group element, it return also a description of the later with respect to all the group element he has previously seen. Our reduction  $\mathcal{B}$  simulates the unforgeability experiment of our protocol for  $\mathcal{A}$ , by interacting with the BBS challenger  $\mathcal{C}$  who gives him access to the oracle  $\mathcal{O}$ Sign.

{39}------------------------------------------------

## • $\mathcal B$ simulation to answer $\mathcal A$ queries:

- \*  $\mathcal{B}$  generates the public parameters pp =  $(p, \mathbb{G}_1, \mathbb{G}_2, g, \tilde{g}, \mathbf{e}, g_0, h, h_0, h_1, \dots h_n, \tilde{h})$ , by first running the bilinear group generators
  - $(p, \mathbb{G}_1, \mathbb{G}_2, g, \tilde{g}, \mathbf{e}) \leftarrow \$$  BGen $(1^{\lambda})$  and selecting  $\lambda_i \leftarrow \$ \mathbb{Z}_p^*$  for all  $i = 0, \ldots, n, \nu, \lambda, \tilde{\lambda} \leftarrow \$$ , and computing  $h_i = g^{\lambda_i}, g_0 = g^{\nu}, h = g^{\lambda}, \tilde{h} = \tilde{g}^{\tilde{\lambda}}$ . He sends pp to the his challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ , which uses it to generate the verification keys. After that  $\mathcal{C}$  sends the verifier's public key vpk.
- \*  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $(isk_j, ipk_j, ipk_j) \leftarrow s$  |KeyGen(pp)| for  $j = 1, \dots n_J$  and runs
  - $(\mathcal{P}^*, st) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Issue}, \mathcal{O}\mathsf{Show}}(\operatorname{pp}, \{(\operatorname{ipk}_j, \operatorname{ipk}_j)\}_i^{n_J}).$  For every additional key
  - $(ipk_j, ipk_j) \notin \{(ipk_j, ipk_j)\}_i^{n_J}$ , the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  must provide a proof of knowledge  $\pi_{\text{setup}}$  of the corresponding secret keys.  $\mathcal{B}$  checks all these provided PoK, and if one of them fails  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts.
- \* For every  $ipk_j \in \mathcal{P}^*$  if  $ipk_j \in \{(ipk_j, i\tilde{p}k_j)\}_i^{n_J} \mathcal{B}$  queries  $\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Sign}$  on  $isk_j$ , which returns a BBS signature on  $sk_j$ ,  $\sigma_j = (A_j = (g_0g^{isk_j})^{\frac{1}{x+e_j}}, e_j)$ . If  $ipk_j \not\in \{(ipk_j, i\tilde{p}k_j)\}_i^{n_J}$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  extracts the  $isk_j$  form the provided PoK  $\pi_{\text{setup}}$ , and queries  $\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Sign}$  on  $isk_j$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  sets  $policy^* = (vpk, \{(ipk_j, i\tilde{p}k_j), \sigma_j\}_j)$ .
- \* The adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  is allowed to submit credential queries from the issuer of his choice in  $\mathcal{P}^*$ , and we note  $qS = |\mathbf{Q}_{issue}|$  the number of this queries. When  $\mathcal{A}$  submit an issue query with  $(\boldsymbol{m}, \text{upk}, \pi_{user})$ , if  $\pi_{user}$  does not verify,  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts. Else  $\mathcal{B}$  extracts the witness usk from  $\pi_{user}$  answers this query with a BBS signature  $\sigma = (A = (h_0 h^{usk} \prod_{i=1}^n h_i^{m_i})^{\frac{1}{x+e}}, e)$ .
- Output: We consider that our reduction  $\mathcal{B}$  perfectly simulates the unforgeability experiment for  $\mathcal{A}$ .
  - \* Finally  $\mathcal{B}$  runs

$$(vp^*, \mathcal{D}^*, \text{nonce}^*) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Issue}, \mathcal{O}\mathsf{Show}}(st, \text{pol}^*).$$

Where 
$$vp^* = (\{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, ipk_{j^*}', i\tilde{p}k_{j^*}', \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{B},$$

 $\bar{A}, \bar{D}, \pi_{\text{cert}}, \pi_{\text{validity}})$ , and for every group element in  $vp^*$ ,  $\bar{A}$  has accompanied it with its algebraic representation, which are  $\alpha, \beta, \gamma, \delta, \varphi, \omega, \eta$ , for respectively  $\bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{B}, \bar{A}, \bar{D}, \text{ipk}_{j^*}', \text{ipk}_{j^*}'$ .

- \* If  $\mathcal{A}$  winning condition is not satisfied, then  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts.
- \* Otherwise  $\mathcal{B}$  extracts a witness  $(t', r, e_j)$  from  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$  and a witness  $(e, \hat{t}, r_3, \{m_i^*\}_i^n)$  from  $\pi_{\text{validity}}$ .
- \* With the extracted values  $\mathcal{B}$  recovers  $ipk_{j^*}$ , and the corresponding certificate  $\sigma_{j^*} = (A_{j^*}, e_{j^*})$ . If  $ipk_{j^*} \in \mathcal{P}^*$ , then  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts.
- \* Otherwise  $\mathcal{B}$  tries to recover

isk<sub>j\*</sub> =  $y_{j*} = log_g(ipk_{j*})$ , so that  $(y_{j*}, \sigma_{j*})$  will be a BBS forgery. To do so  $\mathcal{B}$  uses the algebraic representation of the different group element, provided by the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ . We have the following:

$$\bar{B}_{j^*} = g^{\alpha_g} g_0^{\alpha_{g,0}} \operatorname{vpk}^{\alpha_x} \prod_{i \in [n]} h_i^{\alpha_{h,i}}$$
$$\prod_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (A_j^{\alpha_{a,j}} \operatorname{ipk}_j^{\alpha_{y,j}}) \prod_{k \in [qS]} A_k^{\alpha_{a,k}}$$

{40}------------------------------------------------

$$\bar{A}_{j^*} = g^{\beta_g} g_0^{\beta_{g,0}} \operatorname{vpk}^{\beta_x} \prod_{i \in [n]} h_i^{\beta_{h,i}} 
\prod_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (A_j^{\beta_{a,j}} \operatorname{ipk}_j^{\beta_{y,j}}) \prod_{k \in [qS]} A_k^{\beta_{a,k}} . 
\bar{B} = g^{\gamma_g} g_0^{\gamma_{g,0}} \operatorname{vpk}^{\gamma_x} \prod_{i \in [n]} h_i^{\gamma_{h,i}} 
\prod_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (A_j^{\gamma_{a,j}} \operatorname{ipk}_j^{\gamma_{y,j}}) \prod_{k \in [qS]} A_k^{\gamma_{a,k}} . 
\bar{A} = g^{\delta_g} g_0^{\delta_{g,0}} \operatorname{vpk}^{\delta_x} \prod_{i \in [n]} h_i^{\delta_{h,i}} 
\prod_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (A_j^{\delta_{a,j}} \operatorname{ipk}_j^{\delta_{y,j}}) \prod_{k \in [qS]} A_k^{\delta_{a,k}} . 
\operatorname{ipk}_{j^*}' = g^{\omega_g} g_0^{\omega_{g,0}} \operatorname{vpk}^{\alpha_x} \prod_{i \in [n]} h_i^{\omega_{h,i}} . 
\prod_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (A_j^{\omega_{a,j}} \operatorname{ipk}_j^{\omega_{y,j}}) \prod_{k \in [qS]} A_k^{\omega_{a,k}} . 
\operatorname{ipk}_{j^*}' = \tilde{g}^{\eta_g} \tilde{h}^{\eta_h} \operatorname{vpk}^{\alpha_y} \prod_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} \operatorname{ipk}_j^{\eta_{y,j}} .$$

From here we can write the discrete logarithm of the group element in  $vp^*$  to the base  $g, \tilde{g}$ :

$$\bar{b}_{j^*} = \alpha_g + \nu_0 \alpha_{g,0} + \nu_1 \alpha_{g,1} + \lambda \alpha_x x + \sum_{i=0}^n \lambda_i \alpha_{h,i} i + \sum_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (\alpha_{a,j} \frac{\nu_0 + y_j}{x + e_j} + \alpha_{y,j} y_j) + \sum_{k \in [qS]} \alpha_{a,k} \frac{\lambda_0 + \text{usk} + \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda_i m_{i,k}}{y_j + e_k}.$$

$$\bar{a}_{j^*} = \beta_g + \nu_0 \beta_{g,0} + \nu_1 \beta_{g,1} + \lambda \beta_x x + \sum_{i=0}^n \lambda_i \beta_{h,i} + \sum_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (\beta_{a,j} \frac{\nu_0 + y_j}{x + e_j} + \beta_{y,j} y_j) + \sum_{k \in [qS]} \beta_{a,k} \frac{\lambda_0 + \text{usk} + \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda_i m_{i,k}}{y_j + e_k}.$$

$$\bar{b}^* = \gamma_g + \nu_0 \gamma_{g,0} + \nu_1 \gamma_{g,1} + \lambda \gamma_x x + \sum_{i=0}^n \lambda_i \gamma_{h,i} + \sum_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (\gamma_{a,j} \frac{\nu_0 + y_j}{x + e_j} + \gamma_{y,j} y_j) + \sum_{k \in [qS]} \gamma_{a,k} \frac{\lambda_0 + \text{usk} + \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda_i m_{i,k}}{y_j + e_k}.$$

$$\bar{a}^* = \delta_g + \nu_0 \delta_{g,0} + \nu_1 \delta_{g,1} + \lambda \delta_x x + \sum_{i=0}^n \lambda_i \delta_{h,i} + \sum_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (\delta_{a,j} \frac{\nu_0 + y_j}{x + e_j} + \delta_{y,j} y_j) + \sum_{k \in [qS]} \delta_{a,k} \frac{\lambda_0 + \text{usk} + \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda_i m_{i,k}}{y_j + e_k}.$$

$$y_{j^*}' = \omega_g + \nu_0 \omega_{g,0} + \nu_1 \omega_{g,1} + \lambda \omega_x x + \sum_{i=0}^n \lambda_i \omega_{h,i} + \sum_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} (\omega_{a,j} \frac{\nu_0 + y_j}{x + e_j} + \omega_{y,j} y_j) + \sum_{k \in [qS]} \omega_{a,k} \frac{\lambda_0 + \text{usk} + \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda_i m_{i,k}}{y_j + e_k}.$$

$$\tilde{y}'_{j^*} = \eta_g + \tilde{\lambda} \eta_h + \tilde{\lambda} \eta_x x + \sum_{j \in \mathcal{P}^*} \eta_{y,j} y_j.$$

By Plugging the forgery into the verification relations we obtain the following equations:

$$y_{j^*}' = \tilde{y}'_{j^*}.$$

$$\bar{b}_{j^*}\tilde{\lambda} = \bar{a}_{j^*}x.$$

$$\bar{b} = \bar{a}y_{j^*}.$$

Since all the scalars involved in the system of equations are known to the reduction, except for  $y_{j^*}$ , we can associate each element with a formal polynomial representing its exponent in base g whose (for the elements in  $\mathbb{G}_1$ ) and  $\tilde{g}$  (for those in  $\mathbb{G}_2$ ) where the variables are the scalars unknown to the adversary, namely  $y_{j^*}$  and x. Therefore we have  $\tilde{y}'_{j^*} = P(X) = pX + c$  is a polynomial of degree 1 and the indeterminate X, where c is known to  $\mathcal{B}$  (i.e. revealed by  $\mathcal{A}$ ). On the other side  $y'_{j^*} = \frac{Q(X)}{R(X)}$  is a rational polynomial in X.

The equality  $\tilde{y}'_{j^*} = y'_{j^*}$  implies that S(X) = P(X)R(X) - Q(X) = 0. Therefore

1. If S(X) is the zero polynomial, this means all its coefficients are zero. It is then easy to show since R(X) is of degree  $q_S$  and Q(X)

{41}------------------------------------------------

- is at most degree  $q_S$ , this implies p = 0. Therefore,  $\mathcal{B}$  can recover  $y'_{i^*}$ , which would be equal to c.
- 2. If S(X) is not the zero polynomial, then x is one of its roots.  $\mathcal{B}$  can thus find it using the Berlekamp algorithm for polynomial factorization [4]. Therefore,  $\mathcal{B}$  is capable of solving the q-SDH problem since it can recover x.

In both cases (1 and 2 above),  $\mathcal{B}$  is able to break the unforgeability of BBS. Since  $\mathcal{B}$  now knows  $y_{j^*}$ , it can produce a valid BBS forgery  $(y_{j^*}, \sigma_{j^*} = (A_{j^*}, e_{j^*})$ . Therefore we have:

Pr[CertForge]  $\leq$  Adv $_{\mathcal{B},BBS}^{suf-cma}(1^{\lambda})$ Type-2 adversaries: Here our reduction  $\mathcal{B}$  runs the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  as a black box to try to produce a BBS forge.  $\mathcal{A}$  here is an adversary who tries to forge a VP with a credential from an honest issuer. Our reduction  $\mathcal{B}$  simulates the unforgeability experiment of our protocol for the  $\mathcal{A}$ , by interacting with the BBS challenger  $\mathcal{C}$  who gives him access to the oracle  $\mathcal{O}$ Sign.

## • $\mathcal{B}$ simulation to answer $\mathcal{A}$ queries:

- \*  $\mathcal B$  runs the setup of the protocol to generate the public parameters pp, and send it to his BBS challenger. Who returns  $\mathcal B$  the verification public key vpk.
- \*  $\mathcal{B}$  randomly selects  $j_0^* \leftarrow \$ \{1, \ldots, n_J\}.$
- \*  $\mathcal{B}$  generates  $(isk_j, ipk_j, ipk_j) \leftarrow \$ \mathsf{IKeyGen}(pp)$  for  $j = 1, \dots, n_J$ , and runs

 $(\mathcal{P}^*,st) \leftarrow \$ \, \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Issue},\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Show}}(\mathrm{pp},\{(\mathrm{ipk}_j,\tilde{\mathrm{ipk}}_j)\}_j^{n_J}). \, \mathcal{B} \, \mathrm{sets} \, \mathrm{pol}^* = \mathsf{GenPolicy}(\mathcal{P}^*).$ 

- \* The adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  is allowed to submit credential queries from the issuer of his choice in  $\mathcal{P}^*$  except for the issuer with signing key isk $_{j_0}^*$  (knowing that  $j_0^* \leftarrow \{1, \ldots, n_J\}$ ), if  $\mathcal{B}$  receives such queries it aborts. We note qS the number of this queries. When  $\mathcal{A}$  submit an issue query with  $(\boldsymbol{m}, \operatorname{upk}, \pi_{\operatorname{user}})$ , if  $\pi_{\operatorname{user}}$  does not verify,  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts. Else  $\mathcal{B}$  extracts the witness usk from  $\pi$  answer this query with a BBS signature  $\sigma = (A = (h_0 h^{\operatorname{usk}} \prod^n, h^{m_i})^{\frac{1}{x+e}}, e)$ .
- signature  $\sigma = (A = (h_o h^{\text{usk}} \prod_{i=1}^n h_i^{m_i})^{\frac{1}{x+e}}, e).$  **Output**: We consider that our reduction  $\mathcal{B}$  perfectly simulates the unforgeability experiment for  $\mathcal{A}$ .
  - \* Finally B runs

$$(vp^*, \mathcal{D}^*, \text{nonce}^*) \leftarrow \mathcal{A}^{\mathcal{O}\mathsf{Issue}, \mathcal{O}\mathsf{Show}}(st, \text{pol}^*).$$

Where  $vp^* = (\{m_i\}_{i \in \mathcal{D}}, ipk_{j^*}', i\tilde{p}k_{j^*}', \bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{B}^*,$ 

 $\bar{A}^*, \bar{D}^*, \pi_{\text{cert}}^*, \pi_{\text{validity}}^*$ ), and for every group element in  $vp^*$ ,  $\mathcal{A}$  has accompanied it with its algebraic representation, which are  $\boldsymbol{\alpha}, \boldsymbol{\beta}, \boldsymbol{\gamma}, \boldsymbol{\delta}, \boldsymbol{\varphi}, \boldsymbol{\omega}, \boldsymbol{\eta}$ , for respectively  $\bar{B}_{j^*}, \bar{A}_{j^*}, \bar{B}^*, \bar{A}^*, \bar{D}^*, \text{ipk}_{j^*}', \text{ipk}_{j^*}'$ .

- \* If  $\mathcal{A}$  winning condition is not satisfied, then  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts.
- \* Otherwise  $\mathcal{B}$  extracts a witness  $(t', r, e_j)$  therefore from  $\pi_{\text{cert}}$  and a witness  $(e, \hat{t}, r_3, \{m_i^*\}_i^n)$  from  $\pi_{\text{validity}}$ .
- \* With the extracted values  $\mathcal{B}$  recovers  $\mathrm{ipk}_{j^*}$ , and the corresponding certificate  $\sigma^* = (A^*, e^*)$ . If  $\mathrm{ipk}_{j^*} \neq \mathrm{ipk}_{j^*_0}$ , then  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts.
- \* If  $\{m_i^*\} \in Q_{\text{msg}}$ , aborts. Otherwise  $\mathcal{B}$  returns  $(\{m_i^*\}_i^n, \sigma^* = (A^*, e^*))$  as a valid BBS forgery. Therefore we have the following:

$$\Pr\left[\operatorname{CredForge} \wedge \operatorname{ipk}_{j^*} = \operatorname{ipk}_{j_0^*}\right] = \frac{1}{n_j} \mathsf{Adv}_{\mathcal{B}, \operatorname{BBS}}^{\operatorname{suf-cma}}(1^{\lambda})$$

{42}------------------------------------------------

#### B.2 Proof of Theorem 2

## Proof of Issuer-Hiding Anonymity.

*Proof.* (sketch) Let  $\mathcal{A} = (\mathcal{A}_1, \mathcal{A}_2)$  be the adversary in the issuer-hiding experiment defined in Section 3, let pp be the output of  $\mathsf{Setup}(1^\lambda)$ , and let  $(\mathcal{D}, m_i^0 i \in [n], \sigma^0, \mathsf{ipk}^0, m_i^1 i \in [n], \sigma^1, \mathsf{ipk}^1, \mathsf{pol}^*, st)$  be the output of  $\mathcal{A}_1(\mathsf{pp})$ .

To prove that our construction satisfies issuer-hiding anonymity, we need to show that the output of  $\mathsf{Show}(\mathsf{ipk}^0, \sigma^0, \mathcal{D}, m_i^0 i = 1^n, \mathsf{pol}^*)$  and  $\mathsf{Show}(\mathsf{ipk}^1, \sigma^1, \mathcal{D}, m_i^1 i = 1^n, \mathsf{pol}^*)$  are identically distributed. Since we assume that the zero-knowledge proof protocols  $\pi_{\mathsf{cert}}$  and  $\pi_{\mathsf{validity}}$  used by  $\mathsf{Show}$  satisfy perfect zero knowledge, demonstrating this is equivalent to showing that the distribution of  $\bar{A}j^*$ ,  $\bar{B}j^*$ ,  $\bar{A}$ ,  $\bar{D}$ , and  $\bar{B}$  in each case (i.e., b=0 or b=1) are identical.

Let  $\sigma_{j^*}^b = (A_{j^*}^b, e^b j^*)$ ,  $\sigma^b = (A^b, e^b)$ ,  $C^b p k = g_0 i p k^b j^*$ , and  $C_m^b = h_0 \prod_i h_i^{m^b i}$ . From  $\sigma^b j^*$  and  $C^b p k$ , we can easily compute  $B_{j^*}^b$ . Since

$$\begin{aligned} \mathsf{VerifyCred}(\mathrm{ipk}, \{m_i^0\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma^0) &= \mathsf{VerifyCred}(\mathrm{ipk}, \{m_i^1\}_{i=1}^n, \sigma^1) = 1, \text{ and } \\ \mathbf{e}(B_{j^*}^0, \tilde{h}) &= \mathbf{e}(A_{j^*}^0, \mathrm{vpk}) \wedge \mathbf{e}(B_{j^*}^1, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(A_{j^*}^1, \mathrm{vpk}), \end{aligned}$$

we know that, for  $b \in 0, 1$ , the elements  $C^b pk \neq 1, C^b m \neq 1$ , and  $A^b_{j^*} \neq 1$ ,  $A^b \neq 1$ . Therefore:

- The elements  $\bar{A}^{j^*}$ ,  $\bar{D}$ , and  $\bar{A}$  are independent and uniformly distributed in  $\mathbb{G}_1$ , for either choice of  $b \in \{0,1\}$ . This is because  $\bar{A}^{j^*} \neq 1$ ,  $\bar{D} \neq 1$ , and  $\bar{A} \neq 1$ , and the random exponents  $t, r, r_1, r_2$  are independently and uniformly chosen in  $\mathbb{Z}_p^*$ .
- For a given  $\bar{A}^{j^*}$ , and respectively a given  $\bar{D}$  and  $\bar{A}$ , there exists a unique  $\bar{B}^{j^*}$  and a unique  $\bar{B}$  such that verification succeeds (and, by correctness, these are always the outputs of Show for either choice of b). This follows immediately from the pairing equations:

$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}_{j^*}, \tilde{h}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}_{j^*}, \tilde{\text{vpk}})$$
$$\mathbf{e}(\bar{B}, \tilde{g}) = \mathbf{e}(\bar{A}, \tilde{\text{ipk}}'_{j^*}),$$

which are checked during verification. This concludes the proof.