

{0}------------------------------------------------

# Optimally-resilient Unconditionally-secure

# 2 Asynchronous Multi-party Computation Revisited

- 3 Ashish Choudhury
- 4 International Institute of Information Technology Bangalore, India
- 5 ashish.choudhury@iiitb.ac.in

#### — Abstract

In this paper, we present an optimally-resilient, unconditionally-secure asynchronous multi-party computation (AMPC) protocol for n parties, tolerating a computationally unbounded adversary, capable of corrupting up to  $t < \frac{n}{3}$  parties. Our protocol needs a communication of  $\mathcal{O}(n^4)$  field elements per multiplication gate. This is to be compared with previous best AMPC protocol (Patra et al, ICITS 2009) in the same setting, which needs a communication of  $\mathcal{O}(n^5)$  field elements per multiplication gate. To design our protocol, we present a simple and highly efficient asynchronous verifiable secret-sharing (AVSS) protocol, which is of independent interest.

14 15

23

40

41

42

43

44

6

**keywords**: Byzantine faults, secret-sharing, unconditional-security, privacy.

2012 ACM Subject Classification Security and privacy  $\rightarrow$  Information-theoretic techniques; Theory of computation  $\rightarrow$  Distributed algorithms; Theory of computation  $\rightarrow$  Cryptographic protocols

- 18 Keywords and phrases Verifiable Secret-sharing, Secure MPC, Fault-tolerance
- 19 Digital Object Identifier 10.4230/LIPIcs...
- Funding Ashish Choudhury: This research is an outcome of the R & D work undertaken in the project under the Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme of Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India, being implemented by Digital India Corporation (formerly Media Lab Asia).

## <span id="page-0-0"></span>1 Introduction

Secure multi-party computation (MPC) [22, 14, 7, 20] is a fundamental problem, both in 24 cryptography as well as distributed computing. Informally a MPC protocol allows a set of n 25 mutually-distrusting parties to perform a joint computation on their inputs, while keeping 26 their inputs as private as possible, even in the presence of an adversary Adv who can corrupt 27 any t out of these n parties. Ever since its inception, the MPC problem has been widely 28 studied in various flavours (see for instance, [15, 13, 17, 16] and their references). While the 29 MPC problem has been pre-dominantly studied in the synchronous communication model 30 where the message delays are bounded by known constants, the progress in the design of 31 efficient asynchronous MPC (AMPC) protocols is rather slow. In the latter setting, the 32 communication channels may have arbitrary but finite delays and deliver messages in any 33 arbitrary order, with the only guarantee that all sent messages are eventually delivered. The 34 main challenge in designing a fully asynchronous protocol is that it is impossible for an 35 honest party to distinguish between a slow but honest sender (whose messages are delayed) 36 and a corrupt sender (who did not send any message). Hence, at any stage, a party cannot 37 wait to receive messages from all the parties (to avoid endless waiting) and so communication 38 from t (potentially honest) parties may have to be ignored. 39

In this work, we consider a setting where Adv is computationally unbounded. In this setting, we have two class of AMPC protocols. Perfectly-secure AMPC protocols give the security guarantees without any error, while unconditionally-secure AMPC protocols give the security guarantees with probability at least  $1 - \epsilon_{AMPC}$ , where  $\epsilon_{AMPC}$  is any given (non-zero) error parameter. The optimal resilience for perfectly-secure AMPC is t < n/4 [6], while that

{1}------------------------------------------------

for unconditionally-secure AMPC it is t < n/3 [8]. While there are quite a few works which 45 consider optimally-resilient perfectly-secure AMPC protocol [5, 19], not too much attention 46 has been paid to the design of efficient unconditionally-secure AMPC protocol with the 47 optimal resilience of  $t < \frac{n}{3}$ . In this work, we make inroads in this direction, by presenting a 48 simple and efficient unconditionally-secure AMPC protocol. 49

#### Our Results and Comparison with the Existing Works 1.1 50

60

In any unconditionally-secure AMPC protocol (including ours), the function to be computed 51 is abstracted as a publicly-known ckt over some finite field  $\mathbb{F}$ , consisting of addition and 52 multiplication gates over F and the goal is to let the parties jointly and "securely" evaluate 53 ckt. The field  $\mathbb{F}$  is typically the Galois field  $GF(2^{\kappa})$ , where  $\kappa$  depends upon  $\epsilon_{AMPC}$ . The 54 communication complexity of any AMPC protocol is dominated by the communication needed 55 to evaluate the multiplication gates in ckt (see the sequel for details). Consequently, the focus 56 of any generic AMPC protocol is to improve the communication required for evaluating the 57 multiplication gates in ckt. The following table summarizes the communication complexity 58 of the existing AMPC protocols with the optimal resilience of  $t < \frac{n}{3}$  and our protocol. 59

| Reference  | Communication Complexity (in bits) for Evaluating |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------|
|            | a Single Multiplication Gate                      |
| [8]        | $\mathcal{O}(n^{11}\kappa^4)$                     |
| [18]       | $\mathcal{O}(n^5\kappa)$                          |
| This paper | $\mathcal{O}(n^4\kappa)$                          |

We follow the standard approach of shared circuit-evaluation, where each value during the 61 evaluation of ckt is Shamir secret-shared |21| among the parties, with threshold t. Informally, 62 a value s is said to be Shamir-shared with threshold t, if there exists some degree-t polynomial 63 with s as its constant term and every party  $P_i$  holds a distinct evaluation of this polynomial 64 as its share. In the AMPC protocol, each party  $P_i$  verifiably secret-shares its input for ckt. 65 The verifiability here ensures that if the parties terminate this step, then some value is 66 indeed Shamir secret-shared among the parties on the behalf of  $P_i$ . To verifiably secret-share 67 its input, each party executes an instance of asynchronous verifiable secret-sharing (AVSS). 68 Once the inputs of the parties are secret-shared, the parties then evaluate each gate in ckt, 69 maintaining the following invariant: if the gate inputs are secret-shared, then the parties 70 try to obtain a secret-sharing of the gate output. Due to the linearity of Shamir secret-71 sharing, maintaining the invariant for addition gates do not need any interaction among the 72 parties. However, for maintaining the invariant for multiplication gates, the parties need to 73 interact with each other and hence the onus is rightfully shifted to minimize this cost. For 74 evaluating the multiplication gates, the parties actually deploy the standard Beaver's circuit-75 randomization technique [3]. The technique reduces the cost of evaluating a multiplication 76 gate to that of publicly reconstructing two secret-shared values, provided the parties have 77 access to a Shamir-shared random and multiplication triple (a, b, c), where  $c = a \cdot b$ . The 78 shared multiplication triples are generated in advance in a bulk in a circuit-independent 79 pre-processing phase, using the efficient framework proposed in [11]. The framework allows 80 to efficiently and verifiably generate Shamir-shared random multiplication triples, using 81 any given AVSS protocol. Once all the gates in ckt are evaluated and the circuit-output 82

<span id="page-1-0"></span><sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> Instead of the Galois field, one can also use any sufficiently large field, to bound the error probability by  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AMPC}}.$ 

{2}------------------------------------------------

is available in a secret-shared fashion, the parties publicly reconstruct this value. Since all the values (except the circuit output) during the entire computation remains Shamir-shared with threshold t, the privacy of the computation follows from the fact that during the shared circuit-evaluation, for each value in ckt, Adv learns at most t shares, which are independent of the actual shared value. While the AMPC protocols of [8] and [18] also follow the above blue-print of shared circuit-evaluation, the difference is in the underlying AVSS protocol.

83

84

85

86

87

88

89

90

91

92

93

94

95

96

97

98

99

100

101

102

103

104

105

106

107

108

109

110

111

112

113

114

115

116

117

118

119

120

121

122

123

AVSS [6, 8] is a well-known and important primitive in secure distributed computing. On a very high level, an AVSS protocol enhances the security of Shamir secret-sharing against a malicious adversary (Shamir secret-sharing achieves its properties only in the passive adversarial model, where even the corrupt parties honestly follow protocol instructions). The existing unconditionally-secure AVSS protocols with t < n/3 [8, 18] need high communication. This is because there are significant number of obstacles in designing unconditionally-secure AVSS with exactly n = 3t + 1 parties (which is the least value of n with t < n/3). The main challenge is to ensure that all honest parties obtain their shares of the secret. We call an AVSS protocol guaranteeing this "completeness" property as complete AVSS. However, in the asynchronous model, it is impossible to directly get the confirmation of the receipt of the share from each party, as corrupt parties may never respond. To get rid off this difficulty, [8] introduces a "weaker" form of AVSS which guarantees that the underlying secret is verifiably shared only among a set of n-t parties and up to t parties may not have their shares. To distinguish this type of AVSS from complete AVSS, the latter category of AVSS is termed an asynchronous complete secret-sharing (ACSS) in [8], while the weaker version of AVSS is referred as just AVSS<sup>2</sup>. Given any AVSS protocol, [8] shows how to design an ACSS protocol using n instances of AVSS. An AVSS protocol with t < n/3 is also presented in [8]. With a communication complexity of  $\Omega(n^9\kappa)$  bits, the protocol is highly expensive. This AVSS protocol when used in their ACSS protocol requires a communication complexity  $\Omega(n^{10}\kappa)$ . Apart from being communication expensive, the AVSS of [8] involves a lot of asynchronous primitives such as ICP, A-RS, AWSS and Two & Sum AWSS. In [18], a simplified AVSS protocol with communication complexity  $\mathcal{O}(n^3\kappa)$  bits is presented, based on only few primitives, namely ICP and AWSS. This AVSS is then converted into an ACSS in the same way as [8], making the communication complexity of their ACSS  $\mathcal{O}(n^4\kappa)$  bits.

In this work, we further improve upon the communication complexity of the ACSS of [18]. We first design a new AVSS protocol with a communication complexity  $\mathcal{O}(n^2\kappa)$  bits. Then using the approach of [8], we obtain an ACSS protocol with communication complexity  $\mathcal{O}(n^3\kappa)$  bits. Our AVSS protocol is conceptually simpler and is based on just the ICP primitive and hence easy to understand. Moreover, since we avoid the usage of AWSS in our AVSS, we get a saving of  $\Theta(n)$  in the communication complexity, compared to [18] (the AVSS of [18] invokes n instances of AWSS, which is not required in our AVSS).

Paper Organization: As the main contribution of this work is the design of a new AVSS protocol, we mainly focus on the AVSS protocol and the proof of its properties in Section 3. The upgradation from AVSS to ACSS follows the blueprint of [8, 18] and given in Section 4. In Section 5 we present a high level discussion of our AMPC protocol.

<span id="page-2-0"></span>We stress that the weaker form of AVSS is not sufficient for the shared circuit-evaluation. This is because the set of n-t share-holders might be different for different shared values.

{3}------------------------------------------------

## 2 Preliminaries, Definitions and Existing Tools

We assume a set of n parties  $\mathcal{P} = \{P_1, \dots, P_n\}$ , connected by pair-wise private and authentic 125 asynchronous channels. A computationally unbounded adversary Adv can corrupt any t < n/3126 parties. We assume n=3t+1, so that  $t=\Theta(n)$ . In our protocols, all computation are 127 done over a Galois field  $\mathbb{F} = \mathrm{GF}(2^{\kappa})$ . The parties want to compute a function f over  $\mathbb{F}$ , 128 represented by a publicly known arithmetic circuit ckt over  $\mathbb{F}$ . For simplicity and without 129 loss of generality, we assume that each party  $P_i \in \mathcal{P}$  has a single input  $x^{(i)}$  for the function f 130 and there is a single function output  $y = f(x^{(1)}, \dots, x^{(n)})$ , which is supposed to be learnt by 131 all the parties. Apart from the input and output gates, ckt consists of 2-input gates of the 132 form g = (x, y, z), where x and y are the inputs and z is the output. The gate g can be either 133 an addition gate (i.e. z = x + y) or a multiplication gate (i.e.  $z = x \cdot y$ ). The circuit ckt134 consists of  $c_M$  multiplication gates. We require  $|\mathbb{F}| > n$ . Additionally, we need the condition 135  $\frac{n^5 \kappa}{2^{\kappa} - (3c_M + 1)} \leq \epsilon_{\mathsf{AMPC}}$  to hold. Looking ahead, this will ensure that the error probability of 136 our AMPC protocol is upper bounded by  $\epsilon_{AMPC}$ . We assume that  $\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n$  are distinct, 137 non-zero elements from  $\mathbb{F}$ , where  $\alpha_i$  is associated with  $P_i$  as the "evaluation point". By 138 communication complexity of a protocol, we mean the total number of bits communicated by 139 the honest parties in the protocol. While denoting the communication complexity, we use 140 the term  $\mathcal{BC}(\ell)$  to denote that  $\ell$  bits are broadcasted in the protocol. 141

### 2.1 Definitions

124

142

A degree-d univariate polynomial is of the form  $f(x) = a_0 + \ldots + a_d x^d$ , where each  $a_i \in \mathbb{F}$ . A degree- $(\ell, m)$  bivariate polynomial F(x, y) is of the form  $F(x, y) = \sum_{i,j=0}^{i=\ell,j=m} r_{ij} x^i y^j$ , where each  $r_{ij} \in \mathbb{F}$ . Let  $f_i(x) \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} F(x, \alpha_i), g_i(y) \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} F(\alpha_i, y)$ . We call  $f_i(x)$  and  $g_i(y)$  as  $i^{th}$  row and column polynomial respectively of F(x, y) and often say that  $f_i(x), g_i(y)$  lie on F(x, y). We use the following well-known lemma, which states that if there are "sufficiently many" degree-t univariate polynomials which are "pair-wise consistent", then there exists a unique degree-(t, t) bivariate polynomial, passing through these univariate polynomials.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Lemma 1 (Pair-wise Consistency Lemma [10, 1]). Let  $f_{i_1}(x), \ldots, f_{i_\ell}(x), g_{j_1}(y), \ldots, g_{j_m}(y)$  be degree-t polynomials where  $\ell, m \geq t+1$  and  $i_1, \ldots, i_\ell, j_1, \ldots, j_m \in \{1, \ldots, n\}$ .

Moreover, let for every  $i \in \{i_1, \ldots, i_\ell\}$  and every  $j \in \{j_1, \ldots, j_m\}$ ,  $f_i(\alpha_j) = g_j(\alpha_i)$  holds.

Then there exists a unique degree-(t, t) bivariate polynomial, say  $\overline{F}(x, y)$ , such that the row polynomials  $f_{i_1}(x), \ldots, f_{i_\ell}(x)$  and the column polynomials  $g_{j_1}(y), \ldots, g_{j_m}(y)$  lie on  $\overline{F}(x, y)$ .

We next give the definition of complete t-sharing, which is central to our AMPC protocol.

▶ Definition 2 (t-sharing and Complete t-sharing). A value  $s \in \mathbb{F}$  is said to be t-shared among  $\mathcal{C} \subseteq \mathcal{P}$ , if there exists a degree-t polynomial, say f(x), with f(0) = s, such that each honest  $P_i \in \mathcal{C}$  holds its share  $s_i \stackrel{def}{=} f(\alpha_i)$ . The vector of shares of s corresponding to the honest parties in  $\mathcal{C}$  is denoted as  $[s]_t^{\mathcal{C}}$ . A set of values  $S = (s^{(1)}, \dots, s^{(L)}) \in \mathbb{F}^L$  is said to be t-shared among a set of parties  $\mathcal{C}$ , if each  $s^{(i)} \in S$  is t-shared among  $\mathcal{C}$ .

A value  $s \in \mathbb{F}$  is said to be completely t-shared, denoted as  $[s]_t$ , if s is t-shared among the entire set of parties  $\mathcal{P}$ ; that is  $\mathcal{C} = \mathcal{P}$  holds. Similarly, a set of values  $S = (s^{(1)}, \dots, s^{(L)}) \in \mathbb{F}^L$  is completely t-shared, if each  $s^{(i)} \in \mathbb{F}$  is completely t-shared

Note that complete t-sharings are linear: given  $[a]_t, [b]_t$ , then  $[a+b]_t = [a]_t + [b]_t$  and  $[c \cdot a]_t = c \cdot [a]_t$  hold, for any public  $c \in \mathbb{F}$ .

{4}------------------------------------------------

Definition 3 (Asynchronous Complete Secret Sharing (ACSS) [8, 18]). Let CSh be an asynchronous protocol, where there is a designated dealer D ∈  $\mathcal{P}$  with a private input  $S = (s^{(1)}, \ldots, s^{(L)}) \in \mathbb{F}^L$ . Then CSh is a  $(1 - \epsilon_{ACSS})$  ACSS protocol for a given error parameter  $\epsilon_{ACSS}$ , if the following requirements hold for every possible Adv.

- **Termination**: Except with probability  $\epsilon_{ACSS}$ , the following holds. (a): If D is honest and all honest parties participate in CSh, then each honest party eventually terminates CSh. (b): If some honest party terminates CSh, then every other honest party eventually terminates CSh.
- Correctness: If the honest parties terminate CSh, then except with probability  $\epsilon_{ACSS}$ , there exists some  $\overline{S} \in \mathbb{F}^L$  which is completely t-shared, where  $\overline{S} = S$  for an honest D.
- Privacy: If D is honest, then the view of Adv during CSh is independent of S.

We next give the definition of asynchronous information-checking protocol (AICP), which will be used in our ACSS protocol. An AICP involves three entities: a signer  $S \in \mathcal{P}$ , an intermediary  $I \in \mathcal{P}$  and a receiver  $R \in \mathcal{P}$ , along with the set of parties  $\mathcal{P}$  acting as verifiers. Party S has a private input S. An AICP can be considered as information-theoretically secure analogue of digital signatures, where S gives a "signature" on S to I, who eventually reveals it to R, claiming that it got the signature from S. The protocol proceeds in the following three phases, each of which is implemented by a dedicated sub-protocol.

- **Distribution Phase**: Executed by a protocol Gen, where S sends S to I along with some auxiliary information and to each verifier, S gives some verification information.
- Authentication Phase: Executed by P through a protocol Ver, to verify whether S distributed "consistent" information to I and the verifiers. Upon successful verification I sets a Boolean variable V<sub>S,I</sub> to 1 and the information held by I is considered as the information-checking signature on S, denoted as ICSig(S → I,S). The notation S → I signifies that the signature is given by S to I.
- Revelation Phase: Executed by I, R and the verifiers by running a protocol RevPriv, where I reveals  $ICSig(S \rightarrow I, S)$  to R, who outputs S after verifying S.
- ▶ **Definition 4** (AICP [18]). A triplet of protocols (Gen, Ver, RevPriv) where S has a private input  $S \in \mathbb{F}^L$  for Gen is called a  $(1 \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}})$ -secure AICP, for a given error parameter  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , if the following holds for every possible Adv.
- Completeness: If S,I and R are honest, then I sets V<sub>S,I</sub> to 1 during Ver. Moreover, R outputs S at the end of RevPriv.
- **Privacy**: If S, I and R are honest, then the view of Adv is independent of S.
- Unforgeability: If S and R are honest, I reveals  $ICSig(S \to I, \bar{S})$  and if R outputs  $\bar{S}$  during RevPriv, then except with probability at most  $\epsilon_{AICP}$ , the condition  $\bar{S} = S$  holds.
- Non-repudiation: If S is corrupt and if I, R are honest and if I sets  $V_{S,I}$  to 1 holding  $ICSig(S \rightarrow I, \bar{S})$  during Ver, then except with probability  $\epsilon_{AICP}$ , R outputs  $\bar{S}$  during RevPriv.

Note that we do not put any termination condition for AICP. Looking ahead, we use AICP as a primitive in our ACSS protocol and the termination conditions in our instantiation of ACSS ensure that the underlying instances of AICP also terminate.

Finally, we give the definition of two-level t-sharing with IC-signatures, which is the data structure generated by our AVSS protocol, as well as by the AVSS protocols of [8, 18]. This sharing is an enhanced version of t-sharing, where each share is further t-shared. Moreover, for the purpose of authentication, each second-level share is signed.

Definition 5 (Two-level t-Sharing with IC-signatures [18]).  $S = (s^{(1)}, \ldots, s^{(L)})$  is said to be two-level t-shared with IC-signatures if there exists a set  $C \subseteq P$  with  $|C| \ge n - t$  and a set  $C_j \subseteq P$  for each  $P_j \in C$  with  $|C_j| \ge n - t$ , such that the following conditions hold.

{5}------------------------------------------------

• Each  $s^{(k)} \in S$  is t-shared among C, with each party  $P_j \in C$  holding its primary-share  $s_j^{(k)}$ .

213

214

215

216

226

227

228

229

230

231

232

245

246

247

249

250

251

252

253

254

- For each primary-share holder  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$ , there exists a set of parties  $\mathcal{C}_j \subseteq \mathcal{P}$ , such that each primary-share  $s_j^{(k)}$  is t-shared among  $\mathcal{C}_j$ , with each  $P_i \in \mathcal{C}_j$  holding the secondary-share  $s_{j,i}^{(k)}$  of the primary-share  $s_j^{(k)}$ .
- Each primary-share holder  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  holds  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, (s_{j,i}^{(1)}, \dots, s_{j,i}^{(L)}))$ , corresponding to each honest secondary-share holder  $P_i \in \mathcal{C}_j$ .

We stress that the  $C_j$  sets might be different for each  $P_j \in C$ . We finally define AMPC.

Definition 6 (Unconditionally-secure AMPC [8]). Let  $f : \mathbb{F}^n \to \mathbb{F}$  be a publicly known function where each  $P_i$  has a private input  $x^{(i)} \in \mathbb{F}$ . Any AMPC consists of three stages. In the first stage, each  $P_i$  commits its input. Even if  $P_i$  is corrupt, if it completes this step, then it is committed to some value  $\overline{x}^{(i)}$  (not necessarily  $x^{(i)}$ ), where  $\overline{x}^{(i)} = x^{(i)}$  for an honest  $P_i$ . Then the parties agree on a common subset, say  $\mathcal{R}$ , of n-t committed inputs. In the last stage, the parties compute  $f(\overline{x}^{(1)}, \dots, \overline{x}^{(n)})$ , where  $\overline{x}^{(i)} = 0$  if  $P_i \notin \mathcal{R}$ .

An asynchronous protocol  $\Pi$  among  $\mathcal{P}$  for computing f is called a  $(1-\epsilon_{\mathsf{AMPC}})$  unconditionally-secure AMPC protocol, if it satisfies the following conditions for every possible  $\mathsf{Adv}$ .

- Termination: If all honest parties participate in  $\Pi$ , then the honest parties eventually terminates  $\Pi$  with probability at least  $1 \epsilon_{\mathsf{AMPC}}$ .
- Correctness: Honest parties output  $f(\overline{x}^{(1)}, \dots, \overline{x}^{(n)})$ , with probability at least  $1 \epsilon_{\mathsf{AMPC}}$ .
- **Privacy**: The view of the Adv is independent of the inputs of the honest parties in  $\mathcal{R}$ .

## 2.2 Existing Asynchronous Protocols Used in Our ACSS protocol

We use the AICP protocol of [18] (see Appendix A for the details), where  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}} \leq \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa} - (L+1)}$  and where Gen, Ver and RevPriv has communication complexity of  $\mathcal{O}((L+n\kappa)\kappa)$ ,  $\mathcal{O}(n\kappa^2)$  and  $\mathcal{O}((L+n\kappa)\kappa)$  bits respectively. In the AICP, any party in  $\mathcal{P}$  can play the role of S, I and R. In the rest of the paper, we use the following terms which using the AICP of [18].

- " $P_i$  gives  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, \mathcal{S})$  to  $P_j$ " to mean that  $P_i$  acts as a signer  $\mathsf{S}$  and invokes an instance of the protocol  $\mathsf{Gen}(\mathsf{S},\mathsf{I},\mathcal{S})$ , where  $P_j$  plays the role of intermediary  $\mathsf{I}$ .
- " $P_j$  receives  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, \mathcal{S})$  from  $P_i$ " to mean that  $P_j$  as an intermediary I holds  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, \mathcal{S})$  and has set  $\mathsf{V}_{P_i, P_j}$  to 1 during  $\mathsf{Ver}$ , with  $P_i$  being the signer  $\mathsf{S}$ .
- " $P_j$  reveals  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, \mathcal{S})$  to  $P_k$ " to mean  $P_j$  as an intermediary I invokes an instance of RevPriv, with  $P_i$  and  $P_k$  playing the role of S and R respectively.
- " $P_k$  accepts  $ICSig(P_i \to P_j, \mathcal{S})$ " to mean that  $P_k$  as a receiver R outputs  $\mathcal{S}$ , during the instance of RevPriv, invoked by  $P_j$  as I, with  $P_i$  playing the role of S.

We also use the asynchronous broadcast protocol of Bracha [9], which allows a sender  $\mathbf{S} \in \mathcal{P}$  to identically send a message m to all the parties, even in the presence of Adv. If  $\mathbf{S}$  is honest, then all honest parties eventually terminate with output m. If  $\mathbf{S}$  is corrupt but some honest party terminates with an output  $m^*$ , then eventually every other honest party terminates with output  $m^*$ . The protocol has communication complexity  $\mathcal{O}(n^2 \cdot \ell)$  bits, if sender's message m consists of  $\ell$  bits. We use the term  $P_i$  broadcasts m to mean that  $P_i$  acts as  $\mathbf{S}$  and invokes an instance of Bracha's protocol to broadcast m. Similarly, the term  $P_j$  receives m from the broadcast of  $P_i$  means that  $P_j$  (as a receiver) completes the execution of  $P_i$ 's broadcast (namely the instance of broadcast protocol where  $P_i$  is  $\mathbf{S}$ ), with m as output.

## <span id="page-5-0"></span>**3** Verifiably Generating Two-Level *t*-sharing with IC Signatures

We present a protocol Sh, which will be used as a sub-protocol in our ACSS scheme. In the protocol, there exists a designated  $D \in \mathcal{P}$  with a private input  $S \in \mathbb{F}^L$  and the goal is

{6}------------------------------------------------

to *verifiably* generate a two-level t-sharing with IC signatures of S. The verifiability allows the parties to publicly verify if D behaved honestly, while preserving the privacy of S for an honest D. We first present the protocol Sh assuming that D has a single value for sharing, that is L=1. The modifications needed to share L values are straight-forward.

To share s, D hides s in the constant term of a random degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial F(x,y). The goal is then to let D distribute the row and column polynomials of F(x,y) to respective parties and then publicly verify if D has distributed consistent row and column polynomials to sufficiently many parties, which lie on a single degree-(t, t) bivariate polynomial, say F(x,y), which is considered as D's committed bivariate polynomial (if D is honest then  $\bar{F}(x,y) = F(x,y)$  holds). Once the existence of an  $\bar{F}(x,y)$  is confirmed, the next goal is to let each  $P_j$  who holds its row polynomial  $\bar{F}(x,\alpha_j)$  lying on  $\bar{F}(x,y)$ , get signature on  $F(\alpha_i, \alpha_j)$  values from at least n-t parties  $P_i$ . Finally, once n-t parties  $P_j$  get their row polynomials signed, it implies the generation of two-level t-sharing of  $\bar{s} = F(0,0)$  with IC signatures. Namely,  $\bar{s}$  will be t-shared through degree-t column polynomial F(0,y). The set of signed row-polynomial holders  $P_j$  will constitute the set  $\mathcal{C}$ , where  $P_j$  holds the primaryshare  $F(0,\alpha_j)$ , which is the constant term of its row polynomial  $F(x,\alpha_j)$ . And the set of parties  $P_i$  who signed the values  $F(\alpha_i, \alpha_j)$  for  $P_j$  constitute the  $C_j$  set with  $P_i$  holding the secondary-share  $F(\alpha_i, \alpha_j)$ , thus ensuring that the primary-share  $F(0, \alpha_j)$  is t-shared among  $C_j$  through degree-t row polynomial  $\bar{F}(x,\alpha_j)$ . For a pictorial depiction of how the values on D's bivariate polynomial constitute the two-level t-sharing of its constant term, see Fig 1.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 1 Two-level t-sharing with IC signatures of s = F(0,0). Here we assume that  $\mathcal{C} = \{P_1, \ldots, P_{2t+1}\}$  and  $\mathcal{C}_j = \{P_1, \ldots, P_{2t+1}\}$  for each  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$ . Party  $P_j$  will possess all the values along the  $j^{th}$  row, which constitute the row polynomial  $f_j(x) = F(x, \alpha_j)$ . Column-wise,  $P_i$  possesses the values in the column labelled with  $P_i$ , which lie on the column polynomial  $g_i(y) = F(\alpha_i, y)$ . Party  $P_j$  will possess  $P_i$ 's information-checking signature on the common value  $f_j(\alpha_i) = F(\alpha_i, \alpha_j) = g_i(\alpha_j)$  between  $P_j$ 's row polynomial and  $P_i$ 's column polynomial, denoted by blue color.

$$[s = F(0,0)]_t^{\mathcal{C}} \qquad P_1 \qquad \dots \qquad P_i \qquad \dots \qquad P_{2t+1}$$

$$\downarrow \qquad \qquad \downarrow \qquad \qquad \downarrow \qquad \qquad \downarrow \qquad \qquad \downarrow$$

$$P_1 \quad \Rightarrow \quad F(0,\alpha_1) \qquad F(\alpha_1,\alpha_1) \qquad \dots \qquad F(\alpha_i,\alpha_1) \qquad \dots \qquad F(\alpha_{2t+1},\alpha_1) \quad \Leftarrow \qquad [F(0,\alpha_1)]_t^{\mathcal{C}_1}$$

$$\vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots$$

$$P_j \quad \Rightarrow \quad F(0,\alpha_j) \qquad F(\alpha_1,\alpha_j) \qquad \dots \qquad F(\alpha_i,\alpha_j) \qquad \dots \qquad F(\alpha_{2t+1},\alpha_j) \quad \Leftarrow \qquad [F(0,\alpha_j)]_t^{\mathcal{C}_j}$$

$$\vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots \qquad \vdots$$

$$P_{2t+1} \quad \Rightarrow \quad F(0,\alpha_{2t+1}) \qquad F(\alpha_1,\alpha_{2t+1}) \qquad \dots \qquad F(\alpha_i,\alpha_{2t+1}) \qquad \dots \qquad F(\alpha_{2t+1},\alpha_{2t+1}) \quad \Leftarrow \qquad [F(0,\alpha_{2t+1})]_t^{\mathcal{C}_{2t+1}}$$

The above stated goals are achieved in four stages, each of which is implemented by executing the steps in one of the highlighted boxes in Fig 2 (the purpose of the steps in each box appears as a comment outside the box). To begin with, D distributes the column polynomials to respective parties (the row polynomials are currently retained) and tries to get all the row polynomials signed by a common set  $\mathcal{M}$  of n-t column holders, by asking each of them to sign the common values between their column polynomials and row polynomials. That is, each  $P_i$  is given its column polynomial  $g_i(y) = F(\alpha_i, y)$  and is asked to sign the values  $f_{ji}$  for  $j = 1, \ldots, n$ , where  $f_{ji} = f_j(\alpha_i)$  and  $f_j(x) = F(x, \alpha_j)$  is the  $j^{th}$  row polynomial. Party  $P_i$  signs the values  $f_{1i}, \ldots, f_{ni}$  for D after verifying that all of them lie on its column polynomial  $g_i(y)$  and then publicly announces the issuance of signatures to D by broadcasting a MC message (standing for "matched column"). Once a set  $\mathcal{M}$  of n-t parties broadcasts MC message, it confirms that the row polynomials held by D and the column polynomials of the parties in  $\mathcal{M}$  together lie on a single degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial

{7}------------------------------------------------

 (due to the pair-wise consistency Lemma [1\)](#page-3-0). This also confirms that D is committed to a single (yet unknown) degree-(*t, t*) bivariate polynomial. The next stage is to let D distribute the row polynomials of this committed bivariate polynomial to individual parties.

 To prevent a potentially corrupt D from distributing arbitrary polynomials to the parties as row polynomials, D actually sends the signed row polynomials to the individual parties, where the values on the row polynomials are signed by the parties in M. Namely, to distribute the row polynomial *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*) to *P<sup>j</sup>* , D reveals the *f<sup>j</sup>* (*αi*) values to *P<sup>j</sup>* , signed by the parties *P<sup>i</sup>* ∈ M. The presence of the signatures ensure that D reveals the correct *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*) polynomial to *P<sup>j</sup>* , as there are at least *t* + 1 honest parties in M, whose signed values uniquely define *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*). Upon the receipt of correctly signed row polynomial, *P<sup>j</sup>* publicly announces it by broadcasting a MR message (standing for "matched row"). The next stage is to let such parties *P<sup>j</sup>* obtain "fresh" signatures on *n* − *t* values of *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*) by at least *n* − *t* parties C*<sup>j</sup>* . We stress that the signatures of the parties in M on the values of *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*), which are revealed by D cannot be "re-used" and hence M cannot be considered as C*<sup>j</sup>* , as IC-signatures are not "transferable" and those signatures were issued to D and not to *P<sup>j</sup>* . We also stress that the parties in M cannot be now asked to re-issue fresh signatures on *P<sup>j</sup>* 's row polynomial, as corrupt parties in M may now not participate honestly during this process. Hence, *P<sup>j</sup>* has to ask for the fresh signatures on *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*) from every potential party.

 The process of *P<sup>j</sup>* getting *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*) freshly signed can be viewed as *P<sup>j</sup>* recommitting its received row polynomial to a set of *n* − *t* column-polynomial holders. However, extra care has to be taken to prevent a potentially corrupt *P<sup>j</sup>* from getting fresh signatures on arbitrary values, which do not lie in *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*). This is done as follows. Party *P<sup>i</sup>* on receiving a "signature request" for *fji* from *P<sup>j</sup>* signs it, only if it lies on *P<sup>i</sup>* 's column polynomial; that is *fji* = *gi*(*α<sup>j</sup>* ) holds. Then after receiving the signature from *P<sup>i</sup>* , party *P<sup>j</sup>* publicly announces the same. Now the condition for including *P<sup>i</sup>* to C*<sup>j</sup>* is that apart from *P<sup>j</sup>* , there should exist at least 2*t* other parties *P<sup>k</sup>* who has broadcasted MR messages and who also got their respective row polynomials signed by *P<sup>i</sup>* . This ensures that there are total 2*t* + 1 parties who broadcasted MR messages and whose row polynomials are signed by *P<sup>i</sup>* . Now among these 2*t*+ 1 parties, at least *t* + 1 parties *P<sup>k</sup>* are honest, whose row polynomials *fk*(*x*) lie on D's committed bivariate polynomial. Since these *t* + 1 parties got signature on *fk*(*αi*) values from *P<sup>i</sup>* , this further implies that *fk*(*αi*) = *gi*(*αk*) holds for these *t* + 1 honest parties *Pk*, further implying that *Pi* 's column polynomial *gi*(*y*) also lies on D's committed bivariate polynomial. Now since *fji* = *gi*(*α<sup>j</sup>* ) holds for *P<sup>j</sup>* as well, it implies that the value which *P<sup>j</sup>* got signed by *P<sup>i</sup>* is *gi*(*α<sup>j</sup>* ), which is the same as *f<sup>j</sup>* (*αi*). Finally, If D finds that the set C*<sup>j</sup>* has *n* − *t* parties, then it includes *P<sup>j</sup>* in the C set, indicating that *P<sup>j</sup>* has recommitted the correct *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*) polynomial.

 The last stage of Sh is the announcement of the C set and its public verification. We stress that this stage of the protocol Sh will be triggered in our ACSS scheme, where Sh will be used as a sub-protocol. Looking ahead, in our ACSS protocol, D will invoke several instances of Sh and a potential C set is built independently for each of these instances. Once all these individual C sets achieve the cardinality of at least *n* − *t* and satisfy certain additional properties in the ACSS protocol, D will broadcast these individual C sets and parties will have to verify each C set individually. The verification of a publicly announced C set as part of an Sh instance is done by this last stage of the Sh protocol. To verify the C set, the parties check if its cardinality is at least *n* − *t*, each party *P<sup>j</sup>* in C has broadcasted MR message and recommitted its row polynomial correctly to the parties in C*<sup>j</sup>* .

 We stress that there is *no* termination condition in Sh. The protocol will be used as a sub-protocol in our ACSS and terminating conditions of ACSS will ensure that all underlying instances of Sh terminate, if ACSS terminates. Protocol Sh is presented in Fig [2.](#page-9-0)

{8}------------------------------------------------

Comparison with the AVSS Protocol of [18]. The sharing phase protocol of the AVSS of [18] also uses a similar four-stage approach as ours. However, the difference is in the first two stages. Namely, to ensure that D is committed to a single bivariate polynomial, each row polynomial  $f_j(x)$  is first shared by D using an instance of asynchronous weak secret-sharing (AWSS) and once the commitment is confirmed, each polynomial  $f_j(x)$  is later reconstructed towards the corresponding designated party  $P_j$ . There are n instances of AWSS involved, where each such instance is further based on distributing shares lying on a degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial. Consequently, the resultant AVSS protocol becomes involved. We do not involve any AWSS instances for confirming D's commitment to a single bivariate polynomial. Apart from giving us a saving of  $\Theta(n)$  in communication complexity, it also makes the protocol conceptually much simpler.

We next proceed to prove the properties of protocol Sh protocol. In the proofs, we use the fact that the error probability of a single instance of AICP in Sh is  $\epsilon_{AICP}$ , where  $\epsilon_{AICP} \leq \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa}-2}$ , which is obtained by substituting L=1 in the AICP of [18].

<span id="page-8-1"></span>▶ **Lemma 7.** In protocol Sh, if D is honest, then except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{AICP}$ , all honest parties are included in the C set. This further implies that D eventually finds a valid C set.

**Proof.** Since D is honest, each honest  $P_i$  eventually receives the degree-t column polynomial  $g_i(y)$  from D. Moreover,  $P_i$  also receives the values  $f_{ji}$  from D for signing, such that  $f_{ji} = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds. Furthermore,  $P_i$  eventually gives the signatures on these values to D and broadcasts  $MC_i$ . As there are at least 2t + 1 honest parties who broadcast  $MC_i$ , it implies that D eventually finds a set  $\mathcal{M}$  of size 2t + 1 and broadcasts the same.

Next consider an arbitrary honest party  $P_j$ . Since D is honest, it follows that corresponding to any  $P_i \in \mathcal{M}$ , the signature  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to D, f_{ji})$  revealed by D to  $P_j$  will be accepted by  $P_j$ : while this is always true for an honest  $P_i$  (follows the correctness property of AICP), for a corrupt  $P_i \in \mathcal{M}$  it holds except with probability  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$  (follows from the non-repudiation property of AICP). Moreover, the revealed values  $\{(\alpha_i, f_{ji})\}_{P_i \in \mathcal{M}}$  interpolate to a degree-t row polynomial. As there can be at most  $t \leq n$  corrupt parties  $P_i$  in  $\mathcal{M}$ , it follows that except with probability  $n \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , the conditions for  $P_j$  to broadcast  $\mathsf{MR}_j$  are satisfied and hence  $P_j$  eventually broadcasts  $\mathsf{MR}_j$ . As there are at most n honest parties, it follows that except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , all honest parties eventually broadcast  $\mathsf{MR}$ .

Finally, consider an arbitrary pair of honest parties  $P_i, P_j$ . Since D is honest, the condition  $f_j(\alpha_i) = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds. Now  $P_i$  eventually receives  $f_{ji} = f_j(\alpha_i)$  from  $P_j$  for signing and finds that  $f_{ji} = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds and hence gives the signature  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, f_{ji})$  to  $P_j$ . Consequently,  $P_j$  eventually broadcasts  $(\mathsf{SR}_j, P_i)$ . As there are at least 2t+1 honest parties  $P_k$ , who eventually broadcast  $(\mathsf{SR}_k, P_i)$ , it follows that  $P_i$  is eventually included in the set  $\mathcal{C}_j$ . As there are at least 2t+1 honest parties, the set  $\mathcal{C}_j$  eventually becomes of size 2t+1 and hence  $P_j$  is eventually included in  $\mathcal{C}$ .

▶ **Lemma 8.** In protocol Sh, if some honest party receives a valid C set from D, then every other honest party eventually receives the same valid C set from D.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Proof. Since the  $\mathcal{C}$  set is broadcasted, it follows from the properties of broadcast that all honest parties will receive the same  $\mathcal{C}$  set, if at all D broadcasts any  $\mathcal{C}$  set. Now it is easy to see that if a broadcasted  $\mathcal{C}$  set is found to be valid by some *honest* party  $P_m$ , then it will be considered as valid by every other honest party. This is because in Sh the validity conditions for  $\mathcal{C}$  which hold for  $P_m$  will eventually hold for every other honest party.

{9}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 2** Two-level secret-sharing with IC signatures of a single secret.

#### **Sharing Phase: Protocol** Sh(D*, s*)

%Distribution of values and identification of signed column polynomials.

- **Distribution of Column Polynomials and Common Values on Row Polynomials by** D: The following code is executed only by D.
  - Select a random degree-(*t, t*) bivariate polynomial *F*(*x, y*) over F, such that *F*(0*,* 0) = *s*.
  - Send *g<sup>j</sup>* (*y*) = *F*(*α<sup>j</sup> , y*) to each *P<sup>j</sup>* ∈ P. And send *f<sup>j</sup>* (*αi*) to each *P<sup>i</sup>* ∈ P, where *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*) = *F*(*x, α<sup>j</sup>* ).
- **Signing Common Values on Row Polynomials for** D: Each *P<sup>i</sup>* ∈ P (including D) executes the following code.
  - Wait to receive a degree-*t* column polynomial *gi*(*y*) and for *j* = 1*, . . . , n* the values *fji* from D.
  - On receiving the values from D, give ICSig(*P<sup>i</sup>* → D*, fji*) to D for *j* = 1*, . . . , n* and broadcast the message MC*i*, provided *fji* = *gi*(*α<sup>j</sup>* ) holds for each *j* = 1*, . . . , n*.
- **Identifying Signed Column Polynomials**: The following code is executed only by D:
  - Include *P<sup>i</sup>* to an accumulative set M (initialized to ∅), if MC*<sup>i</sup>* is received from the broadcast of *P<sup>i</sup>* and D received ICSig(*P<sup>i</sup>* → D*, fji*) from *Pi*, for each *j* = 1*, . . . , n*.
  - Wait till |M| = 2*t* + 1. Once |M| = 2*t* + 1, then broadcast M.

#### % Distribution of signed row polynomials by D and verification by the parties.

- **Revealing Row Polynomials to Respective Parties**: for *j* = 1*, . . . , n*, D reveals ICSig(*P<sup>i</sup>* → D*, fji*) to *P<sup>j</sup>* , for each *P<sup>i</sup>* ∈ M.
- **Verifying the Consistency of Row Polynomials Received from** D: Each *P<sup>j</sup>* ∈ P (including D) broadcasts MR*<sup>j</sup>* , if the following holds.
  - *P<sup>j</sup>* received an M with |M| = 2*t* + 1 from D and MC*<sup>i</sup>* from each *P<sup>i</sup>* ∈ M.
  - *P<sup>j</sup>* accepted {ICSig(*P<sup>i</sup>* → D*, fji*)}*<sup>P</sup>i*∈M and {(*αi, fji*)}*<sup>P</sup>i*∈M lie on a degree-*t* polynomial *f<sup>j</sup>* (*x*).

## %Recommitment of row polynomials.

- **Getting Signatures on Row Polynomial**: Each *P<sup>j</sup>* ∈ P (including D) executes the following.
  - If *P<sup>j</sup>* has broadcast MR*<sup>j</sup>* , then for *i* = 1*, . . . , n*, send *f<sup>j</sup>* (*αi*) to *P<sup>i</sup>* for getting *Pi*'s signature. Upon receiving ICSig(*P<sup>i</sup>* → *P<sup>j</sup> , fji*) from *Pi*, broadcast (SR*<sup>j</sup> , Pi*), if *fji* = *f<sup>j</sup>* (*αi*) holds.
  - If *P<sup>i</sup>* sent *fij* and has broadcast MR*i*, give ICSig(*P<sup>j</sup>* → *Pi, fij* ) to *Pi*, provided *fij* = *g<sup>j</sup>* (*αi*) holds.
- **Preparing the** C*<sup>j</sup>* **Sets and** C **Set**: the following code is executed only by D.
  - Include *P<sup>i</sup>* in C*<sup>j</sup>* (initialized to ∅), if (SR*k, Pi*) is received from the broadcast of at least 2*t* + 1 parties *P<sup>k</sup>* (including *P<sup>j</sup>* ) who have broadcasted the message MR*k*.
  - Include *P<sup>j</sup>* ∈ C (initialized to ∅), if |C*<sup>j</sup>* | ≥ *n* − *t*. Keep on including new parties *P<sup>i</sup>* in C*<sup>j</sup>* even after including *P<sup>j</sup>* to C, if the above conditions for *Pi*'s inclusion to C*<sup>j</sup>* are satisfied.

#### %Public announcement of C and verification. This code will be triggered by our ACSS protocol..

- **Publicly Announcing the** C **Set**: D broadcasts C and C*<sup>j</sup>* for each *P<sup>j</sup>* ∈ C.
- **Verification of the** C **Set by the Parties**: Upon receiving C and C*<sup>j</sup>* sets from the broadcast of D, each party *P<sup>m</sup>* ∈ P checks if C is *valid* by checking if all the following conditions hold for C.
  - |C| ≥ *n* − *t* and each party *P<sup>j</sup>* ∈ C has broadcast MR*<sup>j</sup>* .
  - For each *P<sup>j</sup>* ∈ C, |C*<sup>j</sup>* | ≥ *n* − *t*. Moreover, for each *P<sup>i</sup>* ∈ C*<sup>j</sup>* , the message (SR*k, Pi*) is received from the broadcast of at least 2*t* + 1 parties *P<sup>k</sup>* (including *P<sup>j</sup>* ) who broadcasted MR*k*.

{10}------------------------------------------------

Lemma 9. Let  $\mathcal{R}$  be the set of parties  $P_j$ , who broadcast  $MR_j$  messages during Sh. If  $|\mathcal{R}| \geq 2t+1$ , then except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , there exists a degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial, say  $\overline{F}(x,y)$ , where  $\overline{F}(x,y) = F(x,y)$  for an honest  $\mathsf{D}$ , such that the row polynomial  $f_j(x)$  held by each honest  $P_j \in \mathcal{R}$  satisfies  $f_j(x) = \overline{F}(x,\alpha_j)$  and the column polynomial  $g_i(y)$  held by each honest  $P_i \in \mathcal{M}$  satisfies  $g_i(y) = \overline{F}(\alpha_i,y)$ .

**Proof.** Let l and m be the number of honest parties in the set  $\mathcal{R}$  and  $\mathcal{M}$  respectively. Since 388  $|\mathcal{R}| \geq 2t+1$  and  $|\mathcal{M}| = 2t+1$ , it follows that  $l, m \geq t+1$ . For simplicity and without loss of 389 generality, let  $\{P_1, \ldots, P_l\}$  and  $\{P_1, \ldots, P_m\}$  be the honest parties in  $\mathcal{R}$  and  $\mathcal{M}$  respectively. 390 We claim that except with probability  $\epsilon_{AICP}$ , the condition  $f_j(\alpha_i) = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds for each 391  $j \in [l]$  and  $i \in [m]$ , where  $f_j(x)$  and  $g_i(y)$  are the degree-t row and column polynomials 392 held by  $P_j$  and  $P_i$  respectively. The lemma then follows from the properties of degree-(t,t)393 bivariate polynomials (Lemma 1) and the fact that there can be at most  $n^2$  pairs of honest 394 parties  $(P_i, P_i)$ . We next proceed to prove our claim. 395

396

397

398

399

400

401

402

403

404

405

406

407

The claim is trivially true with probability 1, if D is honest, as in this case, the row and column polynomials of each pair of honest parties  $P_i, P_j$  will be pair-wise consistent. So we consider the case when D is corrupt. Let  $P_j$  and  $P_i$  be arbitrary parties in the set  $\{P_1, \ldots, P_l\}$  and  $\{P_1, \ldots, P_m\}$  respectively. Since  $P_j$  broadcasts  $MR_j$ , it implies that  $P_j$  accepted the signature  $ICSig(P_i \to D, f_{ji})$ , revealed by D to  $P_j$ . Moreover, the values  $(\alpha_1, f_{j1}), \ldots, (\alpha_m, f_{jm})$  interpolated to a degree-t polynomial  $f_j(x)$ . Furthermore,  $P_j$  also receives  $MC_i$  from the broadcast of  $P_i$ . From the unforgeability property of AICP, it follows that except with probability  $\epsilon_{AICP}$ , the signature  $ICSig(P_i \to D, f_{ji})$  is indeed given by  $P_i$  to D. Now  $P_i$  gives the signature on  $f_{ji}$  to D, only after verifying that the condition  $f_{ji} = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds, which further implies that  $f_j(\alpha_i) = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds, thus proving our claim.

Finally, it is easy to see that  $\overline{F}(x,y) = F(x,y)$  for an honest D, as in this case, the row and column polynomials of each honest party lie on F(x,y).

<span id="page-10-0"></span>Lemma 10. In the protocol Sh, if D broadcasts a valid C, then except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , there exists some  $\overline{s} \in \mathbb{F}$ , where  $\overline{s} = s$  for an honest D, such that  $\overline{s}$  is eventually two-level t-shared with IC signature.

**Proof.** Since the  $\mathcal{C}$  set is valid, it implies that the honest parties receive  $\mathcal{C}$  and  $\mathcal{C}_j$  for each 411  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  from the broadcast of D, where  $|\mathcal{C}| \geq n - t = 2t + 1$  and  $|\mathcal{C}_j| \geq n - t = 2t + 1$ . 412 Moreover, the parties receive  $MR_j$  from the broadcast of each  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$ . Since  $|\mathcal{C}| \geq 2t + 1$ , it 413 follows from Lemma 9, that except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{AICP}$ , there exists a degree-(t,t)414 bivariate polynomial, say  $\overline{F}(x,y)$ , where  $\overline{F}(x,y) = F(x,y)$  for an honest D, such that the 415 row polynomial  $f_j(x)$  held by each honest  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  satisfies  $f_j(x) = \overline{F}(x, \alpha_j)$  and the column 416 polynomial  $g_i(y)$  held by each honest  $P_i \in \mathcal{M}$  satisfies  $g_i(y) = \overline{F}(\alpha_i, y)$ . We define  $\overline{s} = \overline{F}(0, 0)$ 417 and show that  $\bar{s}$  is two-level t-shared with IC signatures. 418

We first show the primary and secondary-shares corresponding to  $\overline{s}$ . Consider the degree-t polynomial  $g_0(y) \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} \overline{F}(0,y)$ . Since  $\overline{s} = g_0(0)$ , the value  $\overline{s}$  is t-shared among  $\mathcal C$  through  $g_0(y)$ , with each  $P_j \in \mathcal C$  holding its primary-share  $\overline{s}_j \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} g_0(\alpha_j) = f_j(0)$ . Moreover, each primary-share  $\overline{s}_j$  is further t-shared among  $\mathcal C_j$  through the degree-t row polynomial  $f_j(x)$ , with each  $P_i \in \mathcal C_j$  holding its secondary-share  $f_j(\alpha_i)$  in the form of  $g_i(\alpha_j)$ . If D is honest, then  $\overline{s} = s$  as  $\overline{F}(x,y) = F(x,y)$  for an honest D. We next show that each  $P_j \in \mathcal C$  holds the IC-signatures of the honest parties from the  $\mathcal C_j$  set on the secondary-shares.

Consider an arbitrary  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$ . We claim that corresponding to each honest  $P_i \in \mathcal{C}_j$ , party  $P_j$  holds the signature  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, f_{ji})$ , where  $f_{ji} = \overline{F}(\alpha_i, \alpha_j)$ . The claim is trivially true for an honest  $P_j$ . This is because  $f_j(\alpha_i) = \overline{F}(\alpha_i, \alpha_j)$  and  $P_j$  includes  $P_i$  in the set  $\mathcal{C}_j$  only

{11}------------------------------------------------

after receiving the signature  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, f_{ji})$  from  $P_i$ , such that the condition  $f_{ji} = f_j(\alpha_i)$ 429 holds. We next show that the claim is true, even for a corrupt  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$ . For this, we show 430 that for each honest  $P_i \in \mathcal{C}_j$ , the column polynomial  $g_i(y)$  held by  $P_i$  satisfies the condition 431 that  $g_i(y) = F(\alpha_i, y)$ . The claim then follows from the fact that  $P_i$  gives the signature 432  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, f_{ji})$  to  $P_j$ , only after verifying that the condition  $f_{ji} = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds. 433 So consider a corrupt  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  and an honest  $P_i \in \mathcal{C}_j$ . We note that  $P_j$  is allowed to 434 include  $P_i$  to  $C_j$ , only if at least 2t+1 parties  $P_k$  (including  $P_j$ ) who have broadcasted  $MR_k$ , 435 has broadcast  $(SR_k, P_i)$ . Let  $\mathcal{H}$  be the set of such honest parties  $P_k$ . For each  $P_k \in \mathcal{H}$ , the 436 row polynomial  $f_k(x)$  held by  $P_k$  satisfies the condition  $f_k(x) = \overline{F}(x, \alpha_k)$  (follows from the 437 proof of Lemma 9). Furthermore, for each  $P_k \in \mathcal{H}$ , the condition  $f_k(\alpha_i) = g_i(\alpha_k)$  holds, 438 where  $g_i(y)$  is the degree-t column polynomial held by the honest  $P_i$ . This is because  $P_k$ 439 broadcasts  $(SR_k, P_i)$ , only after receiving the signature  $ICSig(P_i \to P_k, f_{ki})$  from  $P_i$ , such 440 that  $f_{ki} = f_k(\alpha_i)$  holds for  $P_k$  and  $P_i$  gives the signature to  $P_k$  only after verifying that 441  $f_{ki} = g_i(\alpha_k)$  holds for  $P_i$ . Now since  $|\mathcal{H}| \geq t+1$  and  $g_i(\alpha_k) = f_k(\alpha_i) = F(\alpha_i, \alpha_k)$  holds for 442 each  $P_k \in \mathcal{H}$ , it follows that the column polynomial  $g_i(y)$  held by  $P_i$  satisfies the condition 443  $g_i(y) = \overline{F}(\alpha_i, y)$ . This is because both  $g_i(y)$  and  $\overline{F}(\alpha_i, y)$  are degree-t polynomials and two 444 different degree-t polynomials can have at most t common values. 445

### <span id="page-11-0"></span>▶ **Lemma 11.** *If* D *is honest then in protocol* Sh, *the view of* Adv *is independent of s.*

446

447

448

449

450

461

**Proof.** Without loss of generality, let  $P_1, \ldots, P_t$  be under the control of Adv. We claim that throughout the protocol Sh, the adversary learns only t row polynomials  $f_1(x), \ldots, f_t(x)$  and t column polynomials  $g_1(y), \ldots, g_t(y)$ . The lemma then follows from the standard property of degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomials [12, 18, 2]. We next proceed to prove the claim.

During the protocol Sh, the adversary gets  $f_1(x), \ldots, f_t(x)$  and  $g_1(y), \ldots, g_t(y)$  from D. 451 Consider an arbitrary party  $P_i \in \{P_1, \dots, P_t\}$ . Now corresponding to each honest party 452  $P_j$ , party  $P_i$  receives  $f_{ji} = f_j(\alpha_i)$  for signature, both from D, as well as from  $P_j$ . However 453 the value  $f_{ji}$  is already known to  $P_i$ , since  $f_{ji} = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds. Next consider an arbitrary 454 pair of honest parties  $P_i, P_j$ . These parties exchange  $f_{ji}$  and  $f_{ij}$  with each other over the 455 pair-wise secure channel and hence nothing about these values are learnt by the adversary. 456 Party  $P_i$  gives the signature  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to D, f_{ji})$  to D and  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, f_{ji})$  to  $P_j$  and from 457 the privacy property of AICP, the view of the adversary remains independent of the signed 458 values. Moreover, even after D reveals  $ICSig(P_i \to D, f_{ji})$  to  $P_j$ , the view of the adversary 459 remains independent of  $f_{ii}$ , which again follows from the privacy property of AICP.  $\triangleleft$ 460

## <span id="page-11-1"></span>▶ **Lemma 12.** The communication complexity of Sh is $\mathcal{O}(n^3\kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(n^2)$ bits.

Proof. In the protocol D distributes n row and column polynomials. There are  $\Theta(n^2)$  instances of AICP, each dealing with L=1 value. In addition, D broadcasts a  $\mathcal{C}$  set and  $\mathcal{C}_j$  sets, each of which can be represented by a n-bit vector.

We finally observe that D's computation in the protocol Sh can be recast as if D wants 465 to share the degree-t polynomial F(0,y) among a set of parties  $\mathcal{C}$  of size at least n-t by 466 giving each  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  the share  $\bar{F}(0, \alpha_j)$ . Here  $\bar{F}(x, y)$  is the degree-(t, t) bivariate polynomial 467 committed by D, which is the same as F(x,y) for an honest D (see the pictorial representation 468 in Fig 1 and the proof of Lemma 10). If D is honest, then adversary learns at most t shares 469 of the polynomial F(0,y), corresponding to the corrupt parties in  $\mathcal{C}$  (see the proof of Lemma 470 11). In the protocol, apart from  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$ , every other party  $P_j$  who broadcasts the message 471  $MR_i$  also receives its share  $\bar{F}(0,\alpha_i)$ , lying on  $\bar{F}(0,y)$ , as the row polynomial received by every 472 such  $P_j$  also lies on  $\bar{F}(x,y)$ . Based on these observations, we propose the following alternate 473

{12}------------------------------------------------

notation for invoking the protocol Sh, where the input for D is a degree-t polynomial, instead of a value. This notation will later simplify the presentation of our ACSS protocol.

<span id="page-12-2"></span>▶ Notation 13 (Sharing Polynomial Using Protocol Sh). We use the notation  $Sh(D, r(\cdot))$ , 476 where  $r(\cdot)$  is some degree-t polynomial possessed by D, to denote that D invokes the proto-477 col Sh by picking a degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial F(x,y), which is otherwise a random 478 polynomial, except that  $F(0,y) = r(\cdot)$ . If D broadcasts a valid C, then it implies that there 479 exists some degree-t polynomial, say  $\bar{r}(\cdot)$ , where  $\bar{r}(\cdot) = r(\cdot)$  for an honest D, such that each 480  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  holds a primary-share  $\bar{r}(\alpha_j)$ . We also say that  $P_j$  (who need not be a member of  $\mathcal{C}$ 481 set) receives a share  $r_j$  during  $Sh(D, r(\cdot))$  from D to denote that  $P_j$  receives a degree-t signed 482 row polynomial from D with  $r_i$  as its constant term and has broadcast  $MR_i$  message. 483

## 3.1 Designated Reconstruction of Two-level t-shared Values

484

492

493

<span id="page-12-1"></span>494

497

498

499

Let s be a value which has been two-level t-shared with IC signatures by protocol Sh, with parties knowing a valid  $\mathcal{C}$  set and respective  $\mathcal{C}_j$  sets for each  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$ . Then protocol RecPriv (see Fig 3) allows the reconstruction of s by a designated party R. Protocol RecPriv will be used as a sub-protocol in our ACSS protocol. In the protocol, each party  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  reveals its primary-share to R. Once R receives t+1 "valid" primary-shares, it uses them to reconstruct s. For the validation of primary-shares, each party  $P_j$  actually reveals the secondary-shares, signed by the parties in  $\mathcal{C}_j$ . The presence of at least t+1 honest parties in  $\mathcal{C}_j$  ensures that a potentially corrupt  $P_j$  fails to reveal incorrect primary-share. The properties of RecPriv are

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Figure 3** Reconstruction of a two-level *t*-shared value by a designated party.

#### **Protocol** RecPriv(D, s, R)

- Revealing the signed secondary-shares: Each  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  executes the following code.

• Corresponding to each  $P_i \in C_j$ , reveal  $\mathsf{ICSig}(P_i \to P_j, f_{ji})$  to R.

Verifying the signatures and reconstruction: The following code is executed only by R.

- Include party  $P_j \in \mathcal{C}$  to a set  $\mathcal{K}$  (initialized to  $\emptyset$ ), if all the following holds:
  - R accepted  $ICSig(P_i \to P_j, f_{ji})$ , corresponding to each  $P_i \in C_j$ .
  - The values  $\{(\alpha_i, f_{ji})\}_{P_i \in \mathcal{C}_j}$  lie on a degree-t polynomial, say  $f_j(x)$ .
- Wait till  $|\mathcal{K}| = t + 1$ . Then interpolate a degree-t polynomial, say  $g_0(y)$ , using the values  $\{\alpha_j, f_j(0)\}_{P_j \in \mathcal{K}}$ . Output s and terminate, where  $s = g_0(0)$ .

stated in Lemma 14, which simply follows from its informal discussion and formal steps and the fact that there are  $\Theta(n^2)$  instances of RevPriv, each dealing with L=1 value.

- Lemma 14. Let s be two-level shared with IC-signatures. Then in protocol RecPriv, the following hold for every possible Adv, if all honest parties participate, where  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}} \leq \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa}-2}$ .
  - **Termination**: An honest R terminates, except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{AICP}$ .
  - Correctness: Except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{AICP}$ , an honest R outputs s.
  - Communication Complexity: The communication complexity is  $\mathcal{O}(n^3\kappa^2)$  bits.

The computations done by the parties in RecPriv can be recast as if parties enable a designated R to reconstruct a degree-t polynomial  $r(\cdot)$ , which has been shared by D by executing an instance  $\mathsf{Sh}(\mathsf{D}, r(\cdot))$  of  $\mathsf{Sh}$  (see Notation 13). This is because in RecPriv, party R recovers the entire column polynomial  $g_0(y)$ , which is the same as F(0,y) and as discussed in Notation 13, to share  $r(\cdot)$ , the dealer D executes  $\mathsf{Sh}$  by setting F(0,y) to  $r(\cdot)$ . Based on this discussion, we propose the following alternate notation for reconstructing a shared polynomial by R using RecPriv, which will later simplify the presentation of our ACSS protocol.

{13}------------------------------------------------

Notation 15 (Reconstructing a Shared Polynomial Using RecPriv). Let  $r(\cdot)$  be a degree-t polynomial which has been shared by D by executing an instance  $Sh(D, r(\cdot))$  of Sh.

Then RecPriv(D,  $r(\cdot)$ , R) denotes that the parties execute the steps of the protocol RecPriv to enable R reconstruct r(0), which implicitly allows R to reconstruct the entire polynomial  $r(\cdot)$ .

## **3.2 Protocols** CSh and RecPriv for L Polynomials

511

528

529

530

531

532

533

534

535

536

537

538

539

540

541

542

543

544

545

546

547

548

549

550

551

To share L number of degree-t polynomials  $r^{(1)}(\cdot), \ldots, r^{(L)}(\cdot)$ , D can execute L independent 512 instances of Sh (as per Notation 13). This will cost a communication of  $\mathcal{O}(L \cdot n^3 \kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(L \cdot n^2)$ 513 bits. Instead, by making slight modifications, we achieve a communication complexity of 514  $\mathcal{O}(L \cdot n^2 \kappa + n^3 \kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(n^2)$  bits. In the modified protocol, each  $P_i$  while issuing signatures 515 to any party, issues a *single* signature on all the required values, on the behalf of all the L 516 instances. For instance, as part of recommitment of row polynomials, party  $P_j$  will have 517 L row polynomials (one from each Sh instance) and there will be L common values on 518 these polynomials between  $P_i$  and  $P_j$ , so  $P_i$  needs to sign L values for  $P_j$ . Party  $P_i$  issues 519 signature on the common values on all these L polynomials simultaneously and for this 520 only one instance of AICP is executed, instead of L instances. Thus all instances of AICP 521 now deal with L values and the error probability of single such instance will be  $\epsilon_{AICP}$  where 522  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}} \leq \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa}-(L+1)}$ . To make the broadcast complexity independent of L, each  $P_j$  broadcasts 523 a single  $MR_i$ ,  $MC_i$  and  $(SR_i, P_i)$  message, if the conditions for broadcasting these messages 524 are satisfied with respect to each Sh instance. Finally, each  $P_j$  recommits all its L row 525 polynomials to a common set  $\mathcal{C}_j$  and similarly D constructs a single  $\mathcal{C}$  set with respect to 526 each value in S. We call the resultant protocol as  $\mathsf{MSh}(\mathsf{D},(r^{(1)}(\cdot),\ldots,r^{(L)}(\cdot)))$ . 527

To enable R reconstruct the polynomials  $r^{(1)}(\cdot), \ldots, r^{(L)}(\cdot)$  shared using MSh, the parties execute RecPriv L times. But each instance of signature revelation now deals with L values. The communication complexity will be  $\mathcal{O}(L \cdot n^2 \kappa + n^3 \kappa^2)$  bits.

## <span id="page-13-0"></span>4 Asynchronous Complete Secret Sharing

We now design our ACSS protocol CSh by using protocols Sh and RecPriv as sub-protocols, following the blueprint of [18]. We first explain the protocol assuming D has a single secret for sharing. The modifications for sharing L values are straight forward.

To share a value  $s \in \mathbb{F}$ , D hides s in the constant term of a random degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial F(x,y) where s=F(0,0) and distributes the column polynomial  $g_i(y)=F(\alpha_i,y)$ to every  $P_i$ . D also invokes n instances of our protocol Sh, where the  $j^{th}$  instance  $Sh_j$  is used to share the row polynomial  $f_j(x) = F(x, \alpha_j)$  (this is where we use our interpretation of sharing degree-t univariate polynomial using Sh as discussed in Notation 13). Party  $P_i$  upon receiving a share  $f_{ii}$  from D during the instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_i$  checks if it lies on its column polynomial (that is if  $f_{ii} = g_i(\alpha_i)$  holds) and if this holds for all the n instances of Sh,  $P_i$  broadcasts a MC message. This indicates that all the row polynomials of D are pair-wise consistent with the column polynomial  $g_i(y)$ . The goal is then to let D publicly identify a set of 2t+1 parties, say  $\mathcal{W}$ , such that  $\mathcal{W}$  constitutes a common  $\mathcal{C}$  set in all the n Sh instances and such that each party in  $\mathcal{W}$  has broadcast MC message. If D is honest, then such a common  $\mathcal{W}$  set is eventually obtained, as there are at least 2t+1 honest parties, who constitute a potential common  $\mathcal{W}$  set. This is because if D keeps on running the Sh instances, then eventually every honest party is included in the  $\mathcal{C}$  sets of individual Sh instances. The idea here is that if such a common  $\mathcal{W}$  is obtained, then it guarantees that the row polynomials held by D are pair-wise consistent with the column polynomials of the parties in  $\mathcal{W}$ , implying that the row polynomials of D lie on a single degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial. Moreover, each

{14}------------------------------------------------

of these row polynomials is shared among the common set of parties  $\mathcal{W}$ . The next goal is 552 then to let each party  $P_j$  obtain the  $j^{th}$  row polynomial held by D, for which the parties 553 execute an instance of the protocol RecPriv (here we use our interpretation of using RecPriv 554 to enable designated reconstruction of a shared degree-t polynomial). We stress that once the 555 common set W is publicly identified, each  $P_j$  obtains the desired row polynomial, even if D is 556 corrupt, as the corresponding RecPriv instance terminates for  $P_j$  even for a corrupt D. Once 557 the parties obtain their respective row polynomials, the constant term of these polynomials 558 constitute a complete t-sharing of D's value. For the formal details of CSh, see Fig 4.

<span id="page-14-1"></span>**Figure 4** Complete sharing of a single secret.

### $\mathsf{CSh}(\mathsf{D},s)$

#### Distribution of Column Polynomials and Sharing of Row Polynomials by D:

- D selects a random degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial F(x,y) over  $\mathbb{F}$ , such that F(0,0)=s.
- For i = 1, ..., n, D sends the column polynomial  $g_i(y) = F(\alpha_i, y)$  to  $P_i$ .
- For j = 1, ..., n, D executes an instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_j = \mathsf{Sh}(\mathsf{D}, f_j(x))$ , where  $f_j(x) = F(x, \alpha_j)$ .

Pair-wise Consistency Check: Each  $P_i \in \mathcal{P}$  (including D) executes the following code.

- Wait to receive a degree-t column polynomial  $g_i(y)$  from D.
- Participate in the instances  $\mathsf{Sh}_1,\ldots,\mathsf{Sh}_n$ .
- If a share  $f_{ji}$  is received from D during the instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_j$ , then broadcast the message  $\mathsf{MC}_j$ , if the condition  $f_{ji} = g_i(\alpha_j)$  holds for each  $j = 1, \ldots, n$ .

Construction of W and Announcement: The following code is executed only by D.

- Let  $\mathcal{C}^{(j)}$  denote the instance of  $\mathcal{C}$  set constructed during the instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_{j}$ . Keep updating the  $\mathcal{C}^{(j)}$  sets till a set  $\mathcal{W} = \mathcal{C}^{(1)} \cap \ldots \cap \mathcal{C}^{(n)}$  is obtained, where  $|\mathcal{W}| = n - t$  and  $MC_i$  message is received from the broadcast of each party  $P_i \in \mathcal{W}$ .
- Once a set W satisfying the above conditions are obtained, broadcast W.
- **Verification of**  $\mathcal{W}$ : Each party  $P_j \in \mathcal{P}$  (including D) executes the following code.
  - Upon receiving  $\mathcal{W}$  from the broadcast of D, check if  $\mathcal{W}$  is a valid  $\mathcal{C}$  set for each of the instances  $\mathsf{Sh}_1,\ldots,\mathsf{Sh}_n$  and if  $\mathsf{MC}_i$  message is received from the broadcast of each  $P_i\in\mathcal{W}$ .
  - If the set W satisfies the above conditions, then invoke an instance  $RecPriv_j = RecPriv(D, f_j(x))$ to reconstruct the row polynomial  $f_j(x)$ . Participate in the instances  $\operatorname{RecPriv}_k$ , for  $k=1,\ldots,n$ .
- Share Computation and Termination: Each party  $P_j \in \mathcal{P}$  (including D) does the following.
  - Wait to terminate the instance RecPriv<sub>j</sub> and obtain the row polynomial  $f_j(x)$ .
  - Upon terminating RecPriv<sub>j</sub>, output the share  $s_j = f_j(0)$  and terminate the protocol CSh.

To generate a complete t-sharing of  $S = (s^{(1)}, \ldots, s^{(L)})$ , the parties execute the steps of the protocol CSh independently L times with the following modifications: corresponding to each party  $P_i$ , D will now have L number of degree-t row polynomials to share. Instead of executing L instances of Sh to share them, D shares all of them simultaneously by executing an instance  $MSh_i$  of MSh. Similarly, each party  $P_i$  broadcasts a single  $MC_i$  message, if the conditions for broadcasting the  $MC_i$  message is satisfied for  $P_i$  in all the L instances. The proof of the following theorem follows from |18| and the fact that there are n instances of MSh and RecPriv, each dealing with L polynomials. For details, see Appendix B.

<span id="page-14-2"></span>▶ Theorem 16. Let  $\epsilon_{AICP} \leq \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa} - (L+1)}$ . Then CSh constitutes a  $(1 - \epsilon_{ACSS})$  ACSS protocol, with communication complexity  $O(L \cdot n^3 \kappa + n^4 \kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(n^3)$  bits where  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{ACSS}} \leq n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ . 569

#### <span id="page-14-0"></span>5 The AMPC Protocol

559

560

561

562

563

564

565

566

567

568

570

Our AMPC protocol is obtained by directly plugging in our protocol CSh in the generic 571 framework of [11]. The protocol has a circuit-independent pre-processing phase and a circuit-572

{15}------------------------------------------------

dependent computation phase. During the pre-processing phase, the parties generate  $c_M$  number of completely t-shared, random and private multiplication triples (a,b,c), where  $c=a\cdot b$ . For this, each party first verifiably shares  $c_M$  number of random multiplication triples by executing CSh with  $L=3c_M$ . As the triples shared by corrupt parties may not be random, the parties next apply a "secure triple-extraction" procedure to output  $c_M$  number of completely t-shared multiplication triples, which are truly random and private. The error probability  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AMPC}}$  of the pre-processing phase will be  $\frac{n^5\kappa}{2^\kappa-(3c_M+1)}$  and its communication complexity will be  $\mathcal{O}(c_M n^4\kappa + n^4\kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(n^4)$  bits (as there are n instances of CSh).

During the computation phase, each party  $P_i$  generates a complete t-sharing of its input  $x^{(i)}$  by executing an instance of CSh. As the corrupt parties may not invoke their instances of CSh, to avoid endless wait, the parties agree on a common subset of n-t CSh instances which eventually terminate for every one. For this, the parties execute an instance of agreement on common-subset (ACS) primitive [10, 8]. The parties then securely evaluate each gate in ckt, as discussed in Section 1. As the AMPC protocol is standard and obtained using the framework of [11], we refer to [11] for the proof of the following theorem.

▶ **Theorem 17.** Let  $\mathbb{F} = GF(2^{\kappa})$  and  $f : \mathbb{F}^n \to \mathbb{F}$  be a function, expressed as a circuit over  $\mathbb{F}$  consisting of  $c_M$  multiplication gates. Then there exists a  $(1 - \epsilon_{\mathsf{AMPC}})$  unconditionally-secure AMPC protocol, tolerating Adv, where  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AMPC}} \leq \frac{n^5 \kappa}{2^{\kappa} - (3c_M + 1)}$ . The communication complexity for evaluating the multiplication gates is  $\mathcal{O}(c_M n^4 \kappa + n^4 \kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(n^4)$  bits.

#### References

573

574

575

576

577

578

579

580

581

582

583

584

585

586

587

588

589

590 591

592

593

594

595

596

597

598

- <span id="page-15-8"></span>1 G. Asharov and Y. Lindell. A Full Proof of the BGW Protocol for Perfectly Secure Multiparty Computation. J. Cryptology, 30(1):58–151, 2017.
- <span id="page-15-11"></span>2 L. Bangalore, A. Choudhury, and A. Patra. Almost-Surely Terminating Asynchronous Byzantine Agreement Revisited. In *PODC*, pages 295–304. ACM, 2018.
- <span id="page-15-5"></span>3 D. Beaver. Efficient Multiparty Protocols Using Circuit Randomization. In *CRYPTO*, volume 576 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 420–432. Springer, 1991.
- <span id="page-15-12"></span>Z. Beerliová-Trubíniová and M. Hirt. Efficient Multi-party Computation with Dispute Control.
   In TCC, volume 3876 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 305–328. Springer, 2006.
- <span id="page-15-4"></span>5 Z. Beerliová-Trubíniová and M. Hirt. Simple and Efficient Perfectly-Secure Asynchronous MPC. In ASIACRYPT, volume 4833 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 376–392. Springer, 2007.
- <span id="page-15-2"></span>604 **6** M. Ben-Or, R. Canetti, and O. Goldreich. Asynchronous Secure Computation. In *STOC*, pages 52–61. ACM, 1993.
- <span id="page-15-0"></span>M. Ben-Or, S. Goldwasser, and A. Wigderson. Completeness Theorems for Non-Cryptographic Fault-Tolerant Distributed Computation (Extended Abstract). In *STOC*, pages 1–10. ACM, 1988.
- <span id="page-15-3"></span>M. Ben-Or, B. Kelmer, and T. Rabin. Asynchronous Secure Computations with Optimal Resilience (Extended Abstract). In *PODC*, pages 183–192. ACM, 1994.
- <span id="page-15-9"></span>G. Bracha. An Asynchronous [(n-1)/3]-Resilient Consensus Protocol. In *PODC*, pages 154–162.
   ACM, 1984.
- <span id="page-15-7"></span>R. Canetti. Studies in Secure Multiparty Computation and Applications. PhD thesis, Weizmann Institute, Israel, 1995.
- <span id="page-15-6"></span>A. Choudhury and A. Patra. An Efficient Framework for Unconditionally Secure Multiparty Computation. *IEEE Trans. Information Theory*, 63(1):428–468, 2017.
- <span id="page-15-10"></span>R. Cramer and I. Damgård. *Multiparty Computation, an Introduction. Contemporary Cryptog-*raphy. Birkhåuser Basel, 2005.
- <span id="page-15-1"></span>M. Fitzi. Generalized communication and security models in Byzantine agreement. PhD thesis, ETH Zurich, Zürich, Switzerland, 2003.

{16}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-16-1"></span>O. Goldreich, S. Micali, and A. Wigderson. How to Play any Mental Game or A Completeness Theorem for Protocols with Honest Majority. In *STOC*, pages 218–229. ACM, 1987.

- <span id="page-16-3"></span>M. Hirt. Multi party computation: efficient protocols, general adversaries, and voting. PhD thesis, ETH Zurich, Zürich, Switzerland, 2001.
- <span id="page-16-5"></span>Y. Lindell. Secure Multiparty Computation (MPC). Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/300, 2020.
- <span id="page-16-4"></span>A. Patra. Studies on Verifiable Secret Sharing, Byzantine Agreement and Multiparty Computation. *IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch.*, 2010:280, 2010.
- <span id="page-16-7"></span>A. Patra, A. Choudhary, and C. Pandu Rangan. Efficient Statistical Asynchronous Verifiable Secret Sharing with Optimal Resilience. In *ICITS*, volume 5973 of *Lecture Notes in Computer Science*, pages 74–92. Springer, 2009.
- <span id="page-16-6"></span>A. Patra, A. Choudhury, and C. Pandu Rangan. Efficient Asynchronous Verifiable Secret Sharing and Multiparty Computation. *J. Cryptology*, 28(1):49–109, 2015.
- <span id="page-16-2"></span>T. Rabin and M. Ben-Or. Verifiable Secret Sharing and Multiparty Protocols with Honest Majority (Extended Abstract). In *STOC*, pages 73–85. ACM, 1989.
- <span id="page-16-8"></span>636 **21** A. Shamir. How to Share a Secret. Commun. ACM, 22(11):612–613, 1979.

639

651

652

653

654

655

656

657

658

659

660

661

662

663

664

665

666

667

<span id="page-16-0"></span>A. C. Yao. Protocols for Secure Computations (Extended Abstract). In *FOCS*, pages 160–164. IEEE Computer Society, 1982.

## <span id="page-16-9"></span>A The Asynchronous Information Checking Protocol (AICP) of [18]

The AICP of [18] is an adaptation of the synchronous ICP of [4] to the asynchronous setting 640 Let  $\mathcal{S} = (s^{(1)}, \dots, s^{(L)}) \in \mathbb{F}^L$  be the private input of S. The high level idea of the protocol 641 is as follows: during the distribution phase, S gives S along with some authentication tag 642 to I and a corresponding information-theoretic verification tag to each individual verifier. 643 The tags with respect to a verifier  $P_i$  are computed by picking a random  $y \in \mathbb{F}$  and fitting a 644 degree-L polynomial f(x) passing through L+1 distinct points  $(0,y),(1,s^{(1)}),\ldots,(L,s^{(L)})$ . 645 The authentication tag is set to y, while the verification tag is set to (u, v), where u is 646 randomly chosen from  $\mathbb{F}\setminus\{0,\ldots,L\}$  and v=f(u). Later, during the revelation phase, I 647 provides  $\mathcal{S}$  and the verification tags to R and the verifiers provide the authentication tags to 648 R and if the revealed  $\mathcal{S}$  and verification tags are found to be consistent with "sufficiently 649 large" authentication tags, then  $\mathcal{S}$  is accepted, else it is rejected. 650

A problem with the above approach is that if S is corrupt, then it can distribute inconsistent data to I and the verifiers, which will later lead to the rejection of revealed S. To get around this problem, a cut-and-choose technique is deployed, where instead of providing a single verification and authentication tag with respect to each verifier, S provides  $2\kappa$  number of authentication tags to I and corresponding  $2\kappa$  verification tags are given to each verifier  $P_i$ . Then during the authentication phase,  $P_i$  randomly reveals  $\kappa$  number of verification tags to I and if these verification tags are found to be consistent with S and the corresponding authentication tags (which is considered as cut-and-choose being successful for  $P_i$ ), then with a high probability, it is ensured that at least one of the remaining undisclosed  $\kappa$  verification tags held by  $P_i$  is consistent with S and the corresponding authentication tag held by I.

In the protocol, the cut-and-choose step is executed independently between I and each individual verifier  $P_i$ . Party I sets  $V_{S,I}$  to 1 as soon as it finds that the cut-and-choose test is successful for a set  $\mathcal{R}$  of n-t=2t+1 verifiers. Later, during the revelation phase, R accepts the  $\mathcal{S}$  revealed by I, if there are at least  $|\mathcal{R}|-t=t+1$  verifiers from the set  $\mathcal{R}$ , such that each of these t+1 verifiers produce at least one consistent verification tag from their list of undisclosed verification tags. The protocol is formally presented in Fig 5.

We refer to [18] for the proof of the following theorem.

{17}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-17-1"></span>Figure 5 The AICP of [18].

## Generation Phase: Protocol Gen(S, I, S): $S = (s^{(1)}, \dots, s^{(L)})$

- **Distribution by S**: The following code is executed only by **S**.
  - Corresponding to each verifier  $P_i \in \mathcal{P}$ , pick  $2\kappa$  random elements  $y_1^{(i)}, \ldots, y_{2\kappa}^{(i)}$  and  $2\kappa$  random evaluation points  $u_1^{(i)}, \ldots, u_{2\kappa}^{(i)}$  from  $\mathbb{F} \setminus \{0, \ldots, L\}$ . Compute  $v_1^{(i)}, \ldots, v_{2\kappa}^{(i)}$ , such that for each  $j = 1, \ldots, 2\kappa$ , the L+2 points  $(0, y_j^{(i)}), (1, s^{(1)}), \ldots, (L, s^{(L)}), (u_j^{(i)}, v_j^{(i)})$  lie on a degree-L polynomial.
  - Corresponding to each verifier  $P_i \in \mathcal{P}$ , set  $y_1^{(i)}, \ldots, y_{2\kappa}^{(i)}$  as the authentication tags and set  $z_1^{(i)} = (u_1^{(i)}, v_1^{(i)}), \ldots, z_{2\kappa}^{(i)} = (u_{2\kappa}^{(i)}, v_{2\kappa}^{(i)})$  as the verification tags.
  - Send S along with the authentication tags  $y_1^{(i)}, \ldots, y_{2\kappa}^{(i)}$  corresponding to each verifier  $P_i \in \mathcal{P}$  to I.
  - For i = 1, ..., n, send the verification tags  $z_1^{(i)}, ..., z_{2\kappa}^{(i)}$  to  $P_i$ .

### Authentication Phase: Protocol Ver(S, I, S)

- Each  $P_i \in \mathcal{P}$  (including S, I) on receiving the verification tags  $z_1^{(i)}, \ldots, z_{2\kappa}^{(i)}$  from S randomly partitions the index set  $\{1, \ldots, 2\kappa\}$  into two equal halves  $I_i$  and  $\bar{I}_i$  of size  $\kappa$ . Party  $P_i$  then sends the index sets  $I_i, \bar{I}_i$  and the verification tags  $z_j^{(i)}$  for each  $j \in I_i$  to I.
- Party I upon receiving the index sets  $I_i$ ,  $\bar{I}_i$  and the verification tags  $z_j^{(i)}$  for each  $j \in I_i$  from  $P_i$  verifies if for every  $j \in I_i$ , the L+2 points  $(0, y_j^{(i)}), (1, s^{(1)}), \ldots, (L, s^{(L)}), z_j^{(i)}$  lie on a degree-L polynomial. If the verification is successful, then I includes verifier  $P_i$  to a set  $\mathcal{R}$ , which is initialized to  $\emptyset$ .
- $\left| -\text{ If } |\mathcal{R}| = 2t+1, \text{ then I sets } \mathsf{V}_{\mathsf{S},\mathsf{I}} = 1 \text{ and } \mathsf{ICSig}(\mathsf{S} \to \mathsf{I},\mathcal{S}) = (\mathcal{S}, \{\bar{I}_i\}_{P_i \in \mathcal{R}}, \{y_j^{(i)}\}_{P_i \in \mathcal{R}, j \in \bar{I}_i}).$

### Reveal Phase: Protocol RevPriv(S, I, R, S))

- Revealing of the signature by I: I sends  $\mathcal{R}$  and  $ICSig(S \to I, \mathcal{S})$  to R, provided  $V_{S,I,I} = 1$ .
- Revealing of the verification tags by verifiers: Each verifier  $P_i \in \mathcal{P}$  (including S and I) sends the index set  $\bar{I}_i$  and the verification tags  $z_j^{(i)}$  for each  $j \in \bar{I}_i$  to R.
- Verifying the Signature and Verification Tags: R waits for  $\mathcal{R}$  and  $\mathsf{ICSig}(\mathsf{S} \to \mathsf{I}, \mathcal{S})$  from I. Upon receiving, R obtains  $\mathcal{S} = (s^{(1)}, \dots, s^{(L)})$ , the set  $\mathcal{R}$ , the index sets  $\{\bar{I}_i\}_{P_i \in \mathcal{R}}$  and the authentication tags  $\{y_i^{(i)}\}_{P_i \in \mathcal{R}, j \in \bar{I}_i}$  from ICSig. The signature is then verified by R as follows:
- Upon receiving an index set  $\bar{I}_i$  and verification tags  $\{z_j^{(i)}\}_{j\in\bar{I}_i}$  from verifier  $P_i$ , check if  $P_i\in\mathcal{R}$ . If  $P_i\in\mathcal{R}$ , then mark  $P_i$  as consistent, if the index set  $\bar{I}_i$  received from  $P_i$  is the same as the index set corresponding to  $P_i$  as received from I as part of ICSig and if for any  $j\in\bar{I}_i$ , the L+2 points  $(0,y_j^{(i)}),(1,s^{(1)}),\ldots,(L,s^{(L)}),z_j^{(i)}$  lie on a degree-L polynomial.
- If t+1 verifiers are marked as consistent, then output  $\mathcal{S}$ .
- Theorem 18 ([18]). Protocols (Gen, Ver, RevPriv) constitute a  $(1 \epsilon_{AICP})$ -secure AICP, where  $\epsilon_{AICP} = \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa} (L+1)}$ . The communication complexity of Gen, Ver and RevPriv is  $\mathcal{O}(L\kappa + n\kappa^2)$ ,  $\mathcal{O}(n\kappa^2)$  and  $\mathcal{O}(L\kappa + n\kappa^2)$  bits respectively.

## <span id="page-17-0"></span>**B** Properties of Our ACSS Protocol

671

- We first prove the properties of the protocol CSh, assuming that L=1 (see Fig 4). In the following proofs,  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}} = \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa}-2}$ , which is obtained by substituting L=1 in the AICP.
- <span id="page-17-2"></span>▶ Lemma 19 (Termination for an Honest D). In protocol CSh, if D is honest, then

{18}------------------------------------------------

except with probability  $n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , all honest parties eventually terminate the protocol.

**Proof.** From Lemma 7, it follows that all honest parties are eventually included in the  $\mathcal{C}$ set  $\mathcal{C}^{(j)}$  constructed by D during the instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_j$ , except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ . This implies that all honest parties are eventually included in the sets  $\mathcal{C}^{(1)}, \dots, \mathcal{C}^{(n)}$ , except with probability  $n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{AICP}$ . Moreover, since D is honest, for every pair of honest parties  $P_i, P_j$ , the condition  $f_i(\alpha_i) = g_i(\alpha_i)$  and  $f_i(\alpha_i) = g_i(\alpha_i)$  hold. As there are at least 2t+1 honest parties, this implies that eventually D finds a common set  $\mathcal{W}$  of size 2t+1, such that  $\mathcal{W}$  constitutes a valid  $\mathcal{C}$  set for all the instances  $\mathsf{Sh}_1,\ldots,\mathsf{Sh}_n$  and each party  $P_i$  has broadcast  $\mathsf{MC}_i$  message. Upon the broadcast of W, each honest party eventually validates it and invokes the instances  $RecPriv_1, \ldots, RecPriv_n$ . From Lemma 14, the instance  $RecPriv_j$  eventually terminates for an honest  $P_j$ , except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{AICP}$ . As there are at most n honest parties, it follows that except with probability  $n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{AICP}$ , all honest parties eventually terminate their designated RecPriv instance and hence terminate CSh. 

Lemma 20 (Termination for a Corrupt D). In protocol CSh, if an honest party terminates CSh, then except with probability  $n^3$  · ε<sub>AICP</sub>, all honest parties eventually terminate the protocol.

**Proof.** Let  $P_j$  be an honest party who terminates CSh. This implies that  $P_j$  receives a set  $\mathcal{W}$  of size 2t+1, such that  $\mathcal{W}$  constitutes a valid  $\mathcal{C}$  set for all the instances  $\mathsf{Sh}_1,\ldots,\mathsf{Sh}_n$ . Since  $\mathcal{W}$  is broadcast by D, every other honest party eventually receives the same valid  $\mathcal{W}$ set from D. Party  $P_j$  also terminates its designated RecPriv<sub>j</sub> instance. This implies that for any other honest  $P_k$ , the corresponding designated RecPriv<sub>k</sub> instance eventually terminates for  $P_k$ , except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{AICP}$  (follows from Lemma 14). As there are at most n honest parties, it follows that all honest parties eventually terminate their designated RecPriv instance and hence terminate CSh. 

▶ **Lemma 21 (Correctness).** In protocol CSh, if the honest parties terminate, then except with probability  $n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , there exists some  $\overline{s} \in \mathbb{F}$ , where  $\overline{s} = s$  for an honest D, such that  $\overline{s}$  is completely t-shared.

**Proof.** Since the honest parties terminate CSh, it implies that they receive a set  $\mathcal{W}$  from the broadcast of D, which constitutes a valid  $\mathcal{C}$  set for the instances  $\mathsf{Sh}_1, \ldots, \mathsf{Sh}_n$ . Moreover, each honest  $P_j$  terminates its designated  $\mathsf{RecPriv}_j$  instance with a degree-t polynomial. From Lemma 14, it follows that the degree-t polynomial reconstructed by  $P_j$  during  $\mathsf{RecPriv}_j$  is the same degree-t polynomial, shared by D during the instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_j$ , except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ . As there are at most n honest parties, it follows that except with probability  $n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , the degree-t polynomials reconstructed by the honest parties in their designated  $\mathsf{RecPriv}_j$  instance are the same, as shared by D during the corresponding  $\mathsf{Sh}$  instance. To complete the proof, we claim that the polynomials shared by D during the instances  $\mathsf{Sh}_1, \ldots, \mathsf{Sh}_n$  lie on a single degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial, except with probability  $n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ .

The claim is true with probability 1 for an honest D, as it shares the row polynomial  $f_j(x) = F(x, \alpha_j)$  during the instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_j$ , for all  $j = 1, \ldots, n$ . So we next prove the claim for the case of a corrupt D. Consider an arbitrary instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_j$ . Since  $\mathcal{W}$  is a valid  $\mathcal{C}$  set for the instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_j$ , it follows from Lemma 10 that except with probability  $n^2 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , D shared some degree-t polynomial, say  $\bar{f}_j(x)$  among the parties in  $\mathcal{W}$  during the instance  $\mathsf{Sh}_j$ . This implies that except with probability  $n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ , the polynomials shared by D among  $\mathcal{W}$  during the instances  $\mathsf{Sh}_1, \ldots, \mathsf{Sh}_n$  are all degree-t polynomials, say  $\bar{f}_1(x), \ldots, \bar{f}_n(x)$ . Since every party  $P_i$  in  $\mathcal{W}$  has broadcast  $\mathsf{MC}_i$  message, it follows that if  $P_i$  is honest, then  $\bar{f}_j(\alpha_i) = \bar{g}_i(\alpha_j)$  holds for all  $j = 1, \ldots, n$ ; here  $\bar{g}_i(y)$  is the degree-t column polynomial received by  $P_i$ . As

{19}------------------------------------------------

```
there are at least t+1 honest parties P_i in W, it implies that the degree-t row polynomials
721
    \bar{f}_1(x), \ldots, \bar{f}_n(x) are pair-wise consistent with t+1 degree-t column polynomials, implying
722
    that the polynomials \bar{f}_1(x), \ldots, \bar{f}_n(x) lie on a single degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial, say
723
    F(x,y) (follows from Lemma 1).
724
    ▶ Lemma 22 (Privacy). In protocol CSh, if D is honest, then the view of the adversary
725
    Adv is independent of s.
726
    Proof. Without loss of generality, let P_1, \ldots, P_t be under the control of Adv. We claim that
727
    throughout the protocol, Adv only learns the degree-t row polynomials f_1(x), \ldots, f_t(x) and
728
    degree-t column polynomials g_1(y), \ldots, g_t(y). The lemma then follows from the standard
729
    properties of degree-(t,t) bivariate polynomial [1] and the fact that the polynomial F(x,y)
730
    is randomly chosen by D.
731
        The column polynomials g_1(y), \ldots, g_t(y) are given by Adv, while the row polynomials
732
    f_1(x), \ldots, f_t(x) are obtained during the instances \mathsf{RecPriv}_1, \ldots, \mathsf{RecPriv}_t. For any P_j \in
733
    \{P_{t+2},\ldots,P_n\}, the adversary learns the values f_j(\alpha_1),\ldots,f_j(\alpha_t) during the instance \mathsf{Sh}_j
734
    and these values are independent of the share s_j \stackrel{\text{def}}{=} f_j(0) held by P_j (follows from Lemma
735
    11). Moreover, the values f_j(\alpha_1), \ldots, f_j(\alpha_t) are already known to Adv, as they lie on the
736
    column polynomials held by Adv.
737
    ▶ Lemma 23 (Communication Complexity). The communication complexity of CSh is
738
    \mathcal{O}(n^4\kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(n^3) bits.
739
    Proof. The lemma follows from Lemma 12, Lemma 14 and the fact that there are n instances
740
    of Sh and RecPriv in the protocol.
741
```

<span id="page-19-1"></span><span id="page-19-0"></span>The following theorem finally follows from Lemma 19-23.

745

Theorem 24. Let  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}} \leq \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa}-2}$ . Then CSh constitutes a  $(1 - \epsilon_{\mathsf{ACSS}})$  ACSS protocol, with communication complexity  $\mathcal{O}(n^4\kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(n^3)$  bits where  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{ACSS}} \leq n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ .

### **B.1** Properties of Protocol CSh for Sharing L Values

The procedure for sharing L values using CSh is outlined in Section 4. The resultant protocol involves n instances of MSh, each sharing L number of degree-t polynomials. Also n instances of RecPriv, each reconstructing L number of degree-t polynomials are involved. Moreover, each instance of underlying AICP deals with L values and error probability  $\epsilon_{\text{AICP}}$  of a single instance is  $\epsilon_{\text{AICP}} = \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa} - (L+1)}$ . The proof of the following theorem now follows similar to the proof of Lemma 24.

Theorem 16. Let  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}} \leq \frac{n\kappa}{2^{\kappa} - (L+1)}$ . Then CSh constitutes a  $(1 - \epsilon_{\mathsf{ACSS}})$  ACSS protocol, with communication complexity  $\mathcal{O}(L \cdot n^3 \kappa + n^4 \kappa^2) + \mathcal{BC}(n^3)$  bits where  $\epsilon_{\mathsf{ACSS}} \leq n^3 \cdot \epsilon_{\mathsf{AICP}}$ .