

{0}------------------------------------------------

# From Rerandomizability to Sequential Aggregation: Efficient Signature Schemes Based on SXDH Assumption

Sanjit Chatterjee and R. Kabaleeshwaran

Department of Computer Science and Automation, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India {sanjit, kabaleeshwar}@iisc.ac.in

Abstract. An aggregate signature allows one to generate a short aggregate of signatures from different signers on different messages. A sequential aggregate signature (SeqAS) scheme allows the signers to aggregate their individual signatures in a sequential manner. All existing SeqAS schemes that do not use the random oracle assumption either require a large public key or the security depends upon some non-standard interactive/static assumptions. In this paper, we present an efficient SeqAS scheme with constant-size public key under the SXDH assumption. In the process, we first obtain an optimized (and more efficient) variant of Libert et al's randomizable signature scheme. While both the schemes are more efficient than the currently best ones that rely on some static assumption, they are only slightly costlier than the most efficient ones based on some interactive assumption.

Keywords: Rerandomizable signature, sequential aggregate signature, dualform signature technique, SXDH assumption.

# 1 Introduction

The notion of rerandomizable signature (RRS) was introduced by Camenisch and Lysyanskaya [\[4\]](#page-18-0). Rerandomizability guarantees that given a signature σ on some message m under the public key PK, anybody can compute another valid signature on the same message which is indistinguishable from the original signature. The above feature makes RRS a very useful tool in building privacypreserving protocols.

The notion of aggregate signature was introduced by Boneh et al. [\[3\]](#page-18-1). As the name suggests, aggregation allows one to generate a (compressed) aggregate of a collection of individual signatures on different messages generated by different signers. This notion is inspired by several applications such as certificate chains of public-key infrastructure and secure routing in the context of border gateway protocol [\[3\]](#page-18-1). Sequential aggregate signature (SeqAS), introduced in [\[24\]](#page-19-0), is a special type of aggregate signature. In SeqAS each signer sequentially adds his/her signature on the aggregated-so-far signature. Lu et al. [\[23\]](#page-19-1) presented the 

{1}------------------------------------------------

first SeqAS scheme without random oracle based on the Waters signature [\[30\]](#page-20-0) under the CDH assumption. However, their construction requires a large public key (linear in the security parameter).

In 2011, Schr¨oder [\[28\]](#page-20-1), showed how to construct a SeqAS scheme with constantsize public key based on the Camenisch-Lysyanskaya rerandomizable signature (CL-RRS). However, like the original CL-RRS scheme, security of Schr¨oder's construction is based on a non-standard interactive assumption, called LRSW [\[25\]](#page-19-2). [\[28\]](#page-20-1) relies upon the randomness re-use technique of [\[23\]](#page-19-1), which makes use of the randomness of the so-far aggregated signature to construct the aggregate signature. Lee et al. [\[16\]](#page-19-3) improved Schr¨oder's construction further by introducing public key sharing technique, in which one of the elements from the public key of the underlying signature scheme (in this case, CL-RRS) is placed in the public parameter. Due to this new technique, they have achieved efficient verification and optimized public key size.

In 2013, Lee et al. [\[18\]](#page-19-4) presented a SeqAS scheme with constant-size public key. Their SeqAS scheme is built on a signature scheme that supports multiuser setting and is publicly rerandomizable. In particular, the signature scheme is obtained by introducing suitable components to the signature derived from Lewko-Waters IBE [\[20\]](#page-19-5) through Naor transformation. They have also used Gerbush et al's [\[7\]](#page-18-2) dual-form signature technique to prove unforgeability under a previously introduced static assumption [\[20\]](#page-19-5) along with some standard assumptions. Their follow-up work [\[17\]](#page-19-6) improved upon the previous SeqAS in terms of signature size as well as signing/verification at the cost of a slightly larger public key under the same standard assumption along with two previously introduced static assumptions [\[20\]](#page-19-5).

Apart from the reliance on non-standard assumption, another limitation of the CL-RRS scheme is that the signature size is linear in the number of message blocks signed. In 2016, Pointcheval and Sanders [\[26\]](#page-20-2) presented another rerandomizable signature scheme (called, PS-RRS) where the signature size is independent of the message block length. However, unforgeability of PS-RRS scheme is proved under a new interactive assumption. Following the idea of [\[16\]](#page-19-3), they have also presented an efficient SeqAS scheme based on the PS-RRS scheme.

In 2016, Libert et al. [\[21\]](#page-19-7) presented a randomizable signature scheme (denoted as LMPY-RS). They suitably combined a previously proposed signature scheme [\[22\]](#page-19-8) with a quasi-adaptive NIZK (QA-NIZK) argument [\[14\]](#page-19-9) to obtain a constant size randomizable signature for multiple message blocks. Using the dual-form signature technique [\[7\]](#page-18-2), they argue unforgeability of their construction under the SXDH assumption.

### 1.1 Our Contribution

Our first contribution is to propose an efficient rerandomizable signature scheme under the SXDH assumption. We then use the proposed RRS to realize a sequential aggregate signature scheme with constant-size public key under the SXDH assumption. The performance of the proposed schemes is very close to 

{2}------------------------------------------------

that of previous proposals based on some *non-standard interactive assumption*. For detailed comparison, see Table 2 (resp. Table 4) for RRS (resp. SeqAS).

For the randomizable signature, compared to Libert et al. [21], our main novelty lies in the application of the QA-NIZK proof system of Kiltz and Wee [14]. In particular, instead of the real QA-NIZK proof component, we use the simulated one. Hence we first generate the secret exponent of the signature scheme and then define the trapdoor keys with respect to the linear subspace relation of the proof system. Then, using the dual-form signature technique [7] we argue unforgeability based on the SXDH assumption while full rerandomizability [8] is shown to follow unconditionally. See §3 for the detail.

Next, our RRS serves as a building block to construct a sequential aggregate signature (SeqAS) scheme in §4. Our construction employs both 'randomness reuse' and 'public key sharing' techniques [16]. Since the original LMPY-RS is not directly amenable to signature aggregation, we tweak the signature scheme to realize the desired functionality. As can be seen from Table 4, existing schemes in a similar setting have one of the following limitations. To have security based on a standard assumption, the scheme suffers from large public key size [23]. When public key size is constant, security relies on some non-standard assumption [19]. In contrast, we obtain an efficient construction with constant size public key (and signature) where security is argued based on the well-known SXDH assumption.

### 2 Preliminaries

For a prime p,  $\mathbb{Z}_p^*$  denotes the set of all non-zero elements from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . We denote  $a \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} A$  to be an element chosen uniformly at random from the non-empty set A. We define the bilinear group generator as follows.

**Definition 1** A bilinear group generator  $\mathcal{P}$  is a probabilistic polynomial time (PPT) algorithm which takes the security parameter  $\lambda$  as input and outputs  $\Theta = (p, \mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T, e, g, h)$ , where p is prime,  $\mathbb{G}$ ,  $\mathbb{H}$  and  $\mathbb{G}_T$  are the prime p order groups and g (resp. h) is an arbitrary generator of  $\mathbb{G}$  (resp.  $\mathbb{H}$ ) and  $e : \mathbb{G} \times \mathbb{H} \longrightarrow \mathbb{G}_T$  is a bilinear map that satisfies, (i) **Bilinearity**: For all  $g, g' \in \mathbb{G}$  and  $h, h' \in \mathbb{H}$ , one has  $e(g \cdot g', h \cdot h') = e(g, h) \cdot e(g, h') \cdot e(g', h) \cdot e(g', h')$ , (ii) **Non degeneracy**: If a fixed  $g \in \mathbb{G}$  satisfies e(g, h) = 1 for all  $h \in \mathbb{H}$ , then g = 1 and similarly for elements of  $\mathbb{H}$  and (iii) **Computability**: The map e is efficiently computable.

We recall the decisional Diffie-Hellman assumption (DDH) in  $\mathbb{G}$  (denoted as DDH $_{\mathbb{G}}$ ) as follows.

**Assumption 1** Given  $(\Theta = (p, \mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T, e, g, h), g^a, g^b)$  and  $T = g^{ab+\theta}$ , it is hard to decide whether  $\theta = 0$  or not, for  $a, b \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p$ .

In the same way, we can define the DDH assumption in  $\mathbb{H}$  (denoted as DDH<sub> $\mathbb{H}$ </sub>). When  $\mathcal{P}$  satisfies the DDH assumption in both  $\mathbb{G}$  and  $\mathbb{H}$ , then we say that  $\mathcal{P}$  satisfies the symmetric external Diffie-Hellman (SXDH) assumption.

We recall from [11] the double pairing assumption (DBP) in  $\mathbb{H}$  (denoted as  $DBP_{\mathbb{H}}$ ) as follows.

{3}------------------------------------------------

**Assumption 2** Given  $(\Theta = (p, \mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T, e, g, h), h_r, h_s)$ , it is hard to compute  $(R, S) \neq (1, 1)$  from  $\mathbb{G}^2$  such that  $e(R, h_r)e(S, h_s) = 1$ .

In the same way, we can define the DBP assumption in  $\mathbb{G}$  (denoted as DBP $_{\mathbb{G}}$ ). From [1, Lemma 2], it is clear that, DBP $_{\mathbb{G}}$  is reducible to DDH $_{\mathbb{G}}$  and DBP $_{\mathbb{H}}$  is reducible to DDH $_{\mathbb{H}}$ . The formal definition of digital signature, rerandomizable signature and sequential aggregate signature schemes can be found in Appendix A.

# <span id="page-3-0"></span>3 Rerandomizable Signature

In this section, we describe an efficient rerandomizable signature scheme, whose security is proved under the SXDH assumption. Our construction is inspired from [21]. In [21], one requires to know the public key components to randomize the signature, whereas in our scheme one needs to know only the underlying group order. This feature will later play an important role in the construction of aggregate signature of §4.

### <span id="page-3-1"></span>3.1 Construction

Libert et al. [21] presented a randomizable signature scheme (denoted as LMPY-RS) based on QA-NIZK proof system. In particular, to prove that a vector of group elements belongs to some linear subspace, [12,14] showed that the argument size will be independent of the subspace dimension. [21] exploited this property to obtain a randomizable signature scheme for multiple block messages with a constant size signature. In order to prove unforgeability, they have used Gerbush et al's [7] dual-form signature technique.

In LMPY-RS scheme the secret key SK consists of  $\omega$  from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  and the public key PK consists of  $(g,g_0,h,U_1=g^{u_1},\{V_{1j}=g^{v_{1j}}\}_{j=1}^\ell,\Omega=g_0^\omega,\operatorname{CRS})$  with CRS consisting of  $(z,U_2,\{V_{2j}\}_{j=1}^\ell,h_z,h_0=h_z^{\delta_0},h_{\ell+1}=h_z^{\delta_{\ell+1}},h_{10}=h_z^{\delta_{10}},h_{20}=h_z^{\delta_{20}},\{h_{1j}=h_z^{\delta_{1j}},h_{2j}=h_z^{\delta_{2j}}\}_{j=1}^\ell)$ , where  $g,z,g_0,U_1,U_2,V_{1j},V_{2j}$  are from  $\mathbb G$  and  $h,h_z,h_0,h_{\ell+1},h_{10},h_{20},h_{1j},h_{2j}$  are from  $\mathbb H$ . Note that the trapdoor information  $(\delta_0,\delta_{\ell+1},\delta_{10},\delta_{20},\{\delta_{1j},\delta_{2j}\}_{j=1}^\ell)$  are generated in such a way that  $z=g^{\delta_0}g_0^{\delta_{\ell+1}},\,U_2=U_1^{\delta_0}g^{\delta_{10}}g_0^{\delta_{20}}$  and  $V_{2j}=V_{1j}^{\delta_0}g^{\delta_{1j}}g_0^{\delta_{2j}}$  holds. Hence one can write  $U_2=g^{u_2},\{V_{2j}=g^{v_{2j}}\}_{j=1}^\ell,$  where  $u_2=\delta_0u_1+\delta_{10}+a\delta_{20},\,v_{2j}=\delta_0v_{1j}+\delta_{1j}+a\delta_{2j}$  and  $g_0=g^a$ . The randomizable signature on the message  $\boldsymbol{m}=(m_1,\ldots,m_\ell)$  consists of  $\sigma=(\sigma_1,\sigma_2,\sigma_3,\pi)$ , where

$$\sigma_1 = g^{\omega} \left( U_1 \prod_{j=1}^{\ell} V_{1j}^{m_j} \right)^s, \, \sigma_2 = g^s, \, \sigma_3 = g_0^s, \, \pi = z^{\omega} \left( U_2 \prod_{j=1}^{\ell} V_{2j}^{m_j} \right)^s.$$

Note that the signature component  $\pi$  corresponds to the QA-NIZK proof that the statement  $(\sigma_1, \sigma_2^{m_1}, \dots, \sigma_2^{m_\ell}, \sigma_2, \sigma_3^{m_1}, \dots, \sigma_3^{m_\ell}, \sigma_3, \Omega)$  belongs to a linear subspace generated by the matrix  $M \in \mathbb{Z}_p^{(\ell+2)\times(2\ell+4)}$  as defined in Equation 1. Our RRS scheme is obtained from LMPY-RS scheme by removing the first row and the

{4}------------------------------------------------

last  $\ell + 2$  columns of the matrix M, which results in the matrix N as defined in Equation 1.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>
$$M = \begin{pmatrix} g & 1 & 1 & \dots & 1 & 1 & 1 & 1 & \dots & 1 & 1$$

Notice that the removal of the first row of M corresponds to putting  $\omega=0 \mod p$  which amounts to removing  $g^{\omega}$  (resp.  $z^{\omega}$ ) from  $\sigma_1$  (resp.  $\pi$ ) and  $\Omega$  from PK. The last  $\ell+2$  columns of M correspond to the second generator  $g_0$  and  $\{\{h_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}, h_{20}, h_{\ell+1}\}$  in PK of LMPY-RS. In the signature generation, we directly use the simulated proof component instead of the real QA-NIZK proof component. This allows to set SK containing the trapdoor dependent information  $u_2, \{v_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$  along with  $g, u_1, \{v_{1j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$ .

<span id="page-4-1"></span>Table 1. RRS scheme in the prime-order setting.

```
Run \mathcal{P}(\lambda) \to (p, \mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T, e, g, h), where g \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{G}, h \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{H}, Return PP = (p, \mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T, e, g, h).

KeyGen(PP)
Choose \delta_0, u_1, u_2, \{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p, h_z \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{H} \text{ and set } h_0 := h_z^{\delta_0}, \delta_{10} := u_2 - \delta_0 u_1, \delta_j := v_{2j} - \delta_0 v_{1j}, \text{ for all } j \in [1, \ell].
Set SK := \{g, u_1, u_2, \{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}\}, PK := \{h_z, h_0, h_{10} := h_z^{\delta_{10}}, \{h_j := h_z^{\delta_j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}\}.
Return (SK, PK).

Sign(SK, \boldsymbol{m} = (m_1, \dots, m_\ell))
Choose r \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p and set A := g^{r(u_1 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{1j} m_j)}, B := g^r, C := g^{r(u_2 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{2j} m_j)}.
Return (\boldsymbol{m}, \sigma = (A, B, C)).

Ver(PK, \boldsymbol{m} = (m_1, \dots, m_\ell), \sigma = (A, B, C))
Parse the message and signature and check
```

<span id="page-4-2"></span>
$$B \neq 1 \text{ and } e(A, h_0)e(B, h_{10} \prod_{j=1}^{\ell} h_j^{m_j}) = e(C, h_z).$$
 (2)

If the above two conditions hold, then return accept, otherwise return reject. Rand $(PK, \mathbf{m} = (m_1, \dots, m_\ell), \sigma = (A, B, C))$ 

If  $\operatorname{Ver}(PK, \boldsymbol{m}, \sigma) = 1$ , then choose  $s \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p$  and compute  $A' := A^s, B' := B^s, C' := C^s$ . Return  $\sigma' = (A', B', C')$ .

Else Return  $\perp$ .

Setup( $\lambda$ )

The RRS scheme consists of four PPT algorithms, which are defined in Table 1. Notice that, we avoid the trivial forgery attack by checking  $B \neq 1$ . Suppose, we

{5}------------------------------------------------

do not check the above condition, then anyone can output  $\sigma = (1,1,1)$  as a (trivial) forgery on any message  $\mathbf{m} \in \mathbb{Z}_p^{\ell}$ . Correctness of the scheme can be verified using the following derivation,

$$e(A, h_0)e(B, h_{10} \prod_{j=1}^{\ell} h_j^{m_j}) = e(g^{r(u_1 + \sum_j v_{1j} m_j)}, h_z^{\delta_0})e(g^r, h_z^{\delta_{10} + \sum_j \delta_j m_j})$$

$$= e(g^{r(\delta_0 u_1 + \delta_{10}) + r \sum_j (\delta_0 v_{1j} + \delta_j) m_j}, h_z)$$

$$= e(g^{r(u_2 + \sum_j v_{2j} m_j)}, h_z) = e(C, h_z).$$

The first equality is obtained by substituting the values of the signature and public key components. Second equality is obtained using the bilinearity of the pairing map. The third equality is obtained by substituting the value of  $u_2$  and  $v_{2j}$  components from Table 1.

Notice that, it is sufficient to consider the elements  $U_1 = g^{u_1}, U_2 = g^{u_2}$  and  $\{V_{1j} = g^{v_{1j}}, V_{2j} = g^{v_{2j}}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$ , as part of the SK. However, for better efficiency, we consider the respective exponents of  $U_1, U_2, V_{1j}$  and  $V_{2j}$  as part of the SK, which saves  $2\ell$  many exponentiation and multiplication in the group  $\mathbb{G}$ .

# 3.2 Randomizability

The main feature of a rerandomizable signature scheme is the so-called *random-izability property*. This feature has been utilized effectively in the construction of several other protocols, such as group signature [2] and anonymous credential scheme [4].

**Theorem 1** The RRS scheme satisfies perfect randomizability.

*Proof.* We argue that our RRS scheme satisfies perfect randomizability. To establish that, it is sufficient to prove that the signature returned by Rand and Sign are identically distributed. First, we consider the signature  $\sigma = (A, B, C)$  returned by the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  using Sign on the message  $\mathbf{m} = (m_1, \ldots, m_\ell)$ . In particular, we write

$$A = g^{r(u_1 + \sum_j v_{1j}m_j)}, B = g^r, C = g^{r(u_2 + \sum_j v_{2j}m_j)},$$

for some randomness r from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . Then we consider the signature  $\sigma_1 = (A_1, B_1, C_1)$  returned by Rand on the message and signature pair  $(\boldsymbol{m}, \sigma)$ , where  $A_1 = A^s = g^{sr(u_1 + \sum_j v_{1j}m_j)}$ ,  $B_1 = B^s = g^{rs}$  and  $C_1 = C^s = g^{sr(u_2 + \sum_j v_{2j}m_j)}$ , for some randomness s from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . Now we consider the signature  $\sigma_0 = (A_0, B_0, C_0)$  returned by Sign on the same message  $\boldsymbol{m}$ , where

$$A_0 = g^{z(u_1 + \sum_j v_{1j}m_j)}, B_0 = g^z, C_0 = g^{z(u_2 + \sum_j v_{2j}m_j)}$$

for some randomness z from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . Notice that, in the signature  $\sigma_1$ , the exponent s is the source of randomness whereas in the signature  $\sigma_0$ , the exponent z is the source of randomness. Thus it is clear that both the signatures  $\sigma_0$  and  $\sigma_1$  are identically distributed, as rs and z are independent and identically distributed.

{6}------------------------------------------------

### 3.3 Unforgeability

We use the Gerbush et al's [7] dual-form signature technique and prove unforgeability under the SXDH assumption. Note that, unlike [21], we argue unforgeability without appealing to the security of the underlying QA-NIZK proof system.

**Partition of forgery space:** Let  $\mathcal{V}$  be the set of all message and signature pairs such that they verify under the public key PK. We partition the forgery class  $\mathcal{V}$  into two disjoint sets  $\mathcal{V}_I$  and  $\mathcal{V}_{II}$  which are defined as follows.

**Type-I:** 
$$V_I = \{(\boldsymbol{m}^*, \sigma^*) \in \mathcal{V} : S_1^* = 1 \text{ and } S_2^* = 1\},$$
  
**Type-II:**  $V_{II} = \{(\boldsymbol{m}^*, \sigma^*) \in \mathcal{V} : S_1^* \neq 1 \text{ and } S_2^* \neq 1\},$ 

where  $S_1^* := A^*(B^*)^{-u_1 - \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{1j} m_j^*}$  and  $S_2^* := (C^*)^{-1}(B^*)^{u_2 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{2j} m_j^*}$ . Now we argue that the Type-II forgery class is same as the complement of Type-I forgery class with respect to the forgery space  $\mathcal{V}$ , i.e.,  $\mathcal{V}_{II} = \mathcal{V} - \mathcal{V}_I$ . Notice that from the verification Equation 2, we can simplify as follows.

$$1 = e(A^*, h_0)e(B^*, h_{10} \prod_{j=1}^{\ell} h_j^{m_j^*})e(C^*, h_z)^{-1}$$

$$= e(A^*, h_z^{\delta_0})e(B^*, h_z^{\delta_{10} + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} \delta_j m_j^*})e(C^*, h_z)^{-1}$$

$$= e(A^*, h_z^{\delta_0})e(B^*, h_z^{(u_2 - \delta_0 u_1) + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} (v_{2j} - \delta_0 v_{1j})m_j^*})e(C^*, h_z)^{-1}$$

$$= e(A^*(B^*)^{-u_1 - \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{1j} m_j^*}, h_z^{\delta_0})e((C^*)^{-1}(B^*)^{u_2 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{2j} m_j^*}, h_z)$$

$$= e(S_1^*, h_0)e(S_2^*, h_z)$$

In the above derivation, the second equality is obtained by the values of  $h_{10}$  and  $h_j$  and then substituting the values of  $\delta_{10}$  and  $\delta_j$ . The third equality is obtained by using the bilinearity of the pairing map and the last equality is obtained by the definition of  $S_1^*$  and  $S_2^*$ . Suppose  $S_1^* = 1$ , then the above equation can be simplified as  $e(S_2^*, h_z) = 1$ . Then from the non-degeneracy of the pairing, we have  $S_2^*$  must be 1. In the same way, suppose  $S_2^* = 1$ , then  $S_1^*$  must be 1. Hence there is no valid forgery such that (i)  $S_1^* = 1$  and  $S_2^* \neq 1$  hold or (ii)  $S_1^* \neq 1$  and  $S_2^* = 1$  hold.

Structure of forged signature: Consider the message and signature pair  $(m^*, \sigma^*)$  satisfying the verification Equation 2, where  $m^* = (m_1^*, \dots, m_\ell^*) \in \mathbb{Z}_p^\ell$  and  $\sigma^* = (A^*, B^*, C^*) \in \mathbb{G}^3$ . Suppose the forgery is Type-II, then we explain, how the signature components are written explicitly in terms of the secret exponents. Since  $B^* \in \mathbb{G}$ ,  $B^* \neq 1$  and g is the generator of  $\mathbb{G}$ , we can write  $B^* = g^r$ , for some  $r \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ . For the Type-II forgery, the condition  $S_1^* \neq 1$  holds, we can write  $S_1^* = g^{s_1}$ , for some  $s_1 \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ . Then substituting  $B^*$  value in  $S_1^*$  we obtain that  $A^* = g^{r\left(u_1 + \sum_{j=1}^\ell v_{1j} m_j^*\right) + s_1}$ . The condition  $S_2^* \neq 1$  holds for a Type-II forgery. Then we can write  $S_2^* = g^{-s}$ , for some  $s \in \mathbb{Z}_p^*$ . By substituting the value of  $B^*$  in  $S_2^*$ , we obtain that  $C^* = g^{r(u_2 + \sum_{j=1}^\ell v_{2j} m_j^*) + s}$ . Now from the verification Equation 2, the additional terms  $g^{s_1}$  and  $g^s$  must satisfy the condition  $e(g^{s_1}, h_0) = e(g^s, h_z)$ , so that the Type-II forgery is valid. From the above

{7}------------------------------------------------

condition, we can derive that  $s_1 = s/\delta_0$ . Hence a Type-II forgery can be written as,

<span id="page-7-0"></span>
$$A^* = g^{r(u_1 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{1j} m_j^*) + s/\delta_0}, \quad B^* = g^r, \quad C^* = g^{r(u_2 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{2j} m_j^*) + s}, \quad (3)$$

for some  $r, s \in \mathbb{Z}_p$ .

Suppose the forgery is Type-I, then we see that both conditions,  $S_1^* = 1$  and  $S_2^* = 1$  hold. From the above explanation for the Type-II forgery case and the above conditions, it is clear that s has to be zero modulo p for a Type-I forgery. Hence by substituting s = 0 in Equation 3, we obtain the desired form of Type-I forgery as defined in Table 1.

Two signing algorithms: Let  $\operatorname{Sign}_A$  be same as the  $\operatorname{Sign}$  algorithm defined in Table 1. Next we define the following  $\operatorname{Sign}_B$  algorithm, which is used by the simulator in the unforgeability proof. The  $\operatorname{Sign}_B$  algorithm takes the secret key SK along with element  $\delta_0$  from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  and the message  $m \in \mathbb{Z}_p^{\ell}$  and outputs a message-signature pair.

**Sign**<sub>B</sub>(
$$SK \cup \{\delta_0\}$$
,  $\boldsymbol{m} = (m_1, \dots, m_\ell)$ ): Choose  $r, s \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p$  and compute  $A := g^{r(u_1 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{1j}m_j) + s/\delta_0}$ ,  $B := g^r C := g^{r(u_2 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{2j}m_j) + s}$ . Return  $(\boldsymbol{m}, \sigma := (A, B, C))$ .

From the verification Equation 2, the additional element  $g^{s/\delta_0}$  in A paired with  $h_z^{\delta_0}$  is same as the additional element  $g^s$  in C paired with  $h_z$ . Hence, the signature returned by  $\mathsf{Sign}_B$  also verifies under PK.

**Proof Intuition:** We prove unforgeability of our RRS scheme using a hybrid argument. Let  $\mathsf{Game}_R$  be the real EUF-CMA security game, i.e., given the public key, adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  makes q many signing oracle queries which are answered using  $\mathsf{Sign}_A$  and returns a forgery (from  $\mathcal{V}$ ) on a new message. Next, we define a new game  $\mathsf{Game}_0$  which is similar to  $\mathsf{Game}_R$  except that  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a Type-I forgery. The only difference between  $\mathsf{Game}_R$  and  $\mathsf{Game}_0$  is that of  $\mathcal{A}$  producing a Type-II forgery. Then we prove that under the  $\mathsf{DBP}_{\mathbb{H}}$  assumption,  $\mathcal{A}$  cannot return a Type-II forgery, which ensures that  $\mathsf{Game}_R$  and  $\mathsf{Game}_0$  are indistinguishable. In this reduction, simulator  $\mathcal{B}$  embeds the  $\mathsf{DBP}$  instance to generate the public key terms  $h_z$  and  $h_z^{\delta_0}$ . Then by choosing all the other secret exponents,  $\mathcal{B}$  can answer for  $\mathsf{Sign}_A$  queries. Finally, from the Type-II forgery returned by  $\mathcal{A}$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  computes the solution for the  $\mathsf{DBP}_{\mathbb{H}}$  instance.

Next, we define another game  $\mathsf{Game}_k$  which is similar to  $\mathsf{Game}_0$ , except that the first k signing queries are answered using  $\mathsf{Sign}_B$  algorithm. Then we prove that  $\mathsf{Game}_{k-1}$  and  $\mathsf{Game}_k$  are indistinguishable under the  $\mathsf{DDH}_{\mathbb{G}}$  assumption. In this reduction, simulator  $\mathcal{B}$  embeds one of the terms (say  $g^b$ ) from the DDH instance to define  $u_1$  and  $u_2$ . In particular,  $\mathcal{B}$  defines  $u_1 = \tilde{u}_1 + tb/\delta_0$  and  $u_2 = \tilde{u}_2 + tb$ , for random exponents  $\tilde{u}_1, \tilde{u}_2, \delta_0, t$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  uses the other term (say  $g^a$ ) from the DDH instance for the k-th signature and embeds  $g^a$  and  $g^{ab+\theta}$  to answer for the k-th signing query. For a given DDH tuple with  $\theta = 0$  we are simulating  $\mathsf{Game}_{k-1}$ , otherwise we are simulating  $\mathsf{Game}_k$ .

Finally, we argue that the advantage of  $\mathsf{Game}_q$  is negligible under the  $\mathsf{DBP}_{\mathbb{H}}$  assumption. In this reduction, simulator  $\mathcal{B}$  embeds the  $\mathsf{DBP}$  instance to simulate

{8}------------------------------------------------

the public key components  $h_z$  and  $h_z^{\delta_0}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  defines the exponents  $u_1$  and  $u_2$  in such a way that  $\mathcal{B}$  can answer for  $\operatorname{Sign}_B$  oracle queries. In particular,  $\mathcal{B}$  defines  $u_1 = \tilde{u}_1 - t/\delta_0$  and  $u_2 = \tilde{u}_2 - t$ , for random exponents  $t, \tilde{u}_1, \tilde{u}_2$ . Once the adversary returns a Type-I forgery, then  $\mathcal{B}$  could extract the solution for the DBP problem.

**Theorem 2** If SXDH assumption holds in  $\mathcal{P}$ , then the RRS scheme is EUF-CMA secure.

*Proof.* First we define the following games.

 $\mathsf{Game}_R$ : This is the original EUF-CMA game. Recall that, after receiving the PK from the challenger, the adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  makes q many signing oracle queries adaptively and then returns a forgery on a new message.

Game<sub>0</sub>: Same as  $\mathsf{Game}_R$  except that  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a forgery from  $\mathcal{V}_I$ . Let E be the event that  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a forgery from  $\mathcal{V}_{II}$  in  $\mathsf{Game}_0$ . In Lemma 3, we prove that the event E happens with negligible probability under  $\mathsf{DBP}_{\mathbb{H}}$  assumption. Thus we deduce that  $\mathsf{Game}_R$  and  $\mathsf{Game}_0$  are computationally indistinguishable under  $\mathsf{DBP}_{\mathbb{H}}$  assumption. In particular we have,

$$|Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{R}}} - Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{0}}}| \le Pr[E] \le Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DBP_{\mathbb{H}}}$$

 $\mathsf{Game}_k$ : Same as  $\mathsf{Game}_0$  except that the first k signing queries are answered using  $\mathsf{Sign}_B$ , for  $k \in [1,q]$ , whereas the last q-k queries are answered using  $\mathsf{Sign}_A$ . For  $k \in [1,q]$ , in Lemma 4, we prove that  $\mathsf{Game}_{k-1}$  and  $\mathsf{Game}_k$  are computationally indistinguishable under  $\mathsf{DDH}_{\mathbb{G}}$  assumption. In particular we have,

$$|Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{k}-1}} - Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{k}}}| \le Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DDH_{\mathbb{G}}}.$$

Finally in Lemma 5, we prove that  $Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{q}}}$  is negligible under  $\mathsf{DBP}_{\mathbb{H}}$  assumption. In particular we have,

$$Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game_q}} \leq Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DBP_{\mathbb{H}}}.$$

Hence by the hybrid argument and from Equations 4, 5 and 6, described below, we have,

<span id="page-8-0"></span>
$$\begin{split} Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{UF} &= Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{R}}} = |Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{R}}} - Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{0}}} + Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{0}}} - Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{1}}} + \ldots + \\ &\quad Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{k}-1}} - Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{k}}} + \ldots - Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{q}}} + Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{q}}}| \\ &\leq |Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{R}}} - Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{0}}}| + \sum_{k=1}^{q} |Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{k}-1}} - Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{k}}}| + |Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{q}}}| \\ &\leq Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DBP_{\mathbb{H}}} + q \, Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DDH_{\mathbb{G}}} + Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DBP_{\mathbb{H}}} \\ &\leq (q+2) \, Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{SXDH}. \end{split}$$

{9}------------------------------------------------

**Lemma 3** If  $DBP_{\mathbb{H}}$  assumption holds in  $\mathcal{P}$ , then Pr[E] is negligible.

Proof. Assume that the event E happens with some non-negligible probability. Then we construct a simulator  $\mathcal{B}$  to break the DBP<sub>H</sub> assumption as follows.  $\mathcal{B}$  is given  $\Theta$  and  $h_r, h_s$  from  $\mathbb{H}$  and his goal is to compute  $(R, S) \neq (1, 1)$  from  $\mathbb{G}^2$  such that  $e(R, h_r)e(S, h_s) = 1$ . Now  $\mathcal{B}$  chooses  $u_1, u_2, \{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$  uniformly at random from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . First  $\mathcal{B}$  implicitly sets  $\delta_{10} = u_2 - \delta_0 u_1$  and  $\delta_j = v_{2j} - \delta_0 v_{1j}$ , for  $j \in [1, \ell]$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  defines the public key as,

$$PK := \{ h_z := h_r, h_0 := h_s, h_{10} := h_r^{u_2} h_s^{-u_1}, \{ h_j := h_r^{v_{2j}} h_s^{-v_{1j}} \}_{j=1}^{\ell} \}.$$

Once PK is given to  $\mathcal{A}$ , he makes q many signing oracle queries to  $\mathcal{B}$ . Since  $\mathcal{B}$  knows all the SK components such as  $g, u_1, u_2, \{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$ , he can answer all the signing queries using  $\mathsf{Sign}_A$  algorithm.

Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a forgery  $(\boldsymbol{m}^*, \sigma^*)$ , where  $\boldsymbol{m}^* = (m_1^*, \dots, m_\ell^*) \in \mathbb{Z}_p^\ell$  and  $\sigma^* = (A^*, B^*, C^*) \in \mathbb{G}^3$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  checks (i) the forgery  $(\boldsymbol{m}^*, \sigma^*)$  is valid and (ii) the message  $\boldsymbol{m}^*$  is not queried earlier. If any of these checks fail to hold, then  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts. Otherwise,  $\mathcal{B}$  tries to solve the DBP<sub>H</sub> assumption as follows. First  $\mathcal{B}$  computes  $S = A^*(B^*)^{-u_1 - \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{1j} m_j^*}$  and  $R = (C^*)^{-1}(B^*)^{u_2 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{2j} m_j^*}$ . Since the forgery is valid, hence it satisfies the verification Equation 2 which can be re-written and then simplified as follows.

$$1 = e(C^*, h_z)^{-1} \cdot e(A^*, h_0) \cdot e(B^*, h_{10} \prod_j h_{1j}^{m_j^*})$$

$$= e(C^*, h_r)^{-1} e(A^*, h_s) \cdot e(B^*, h_r^{u_2} h_s^{-u_1} \prod_j (h_r^{v_{2j}} h_s^{-v_{1j}})^{m_j^*})$$

$$= e((C^*)^{-1} (B^*)^{u_2 + \sum_j v_{2j} m_j^*}, h_r) e(A^*(B^*)^{-u_1 - \sum_j v_{1j} m_j^*}, h_s)$$

$$= e(R, h_r) e(S, h_s).$$

In the above derivation, the second equality follows from the structure of public key components and the third equality follows from the bilinearity of the pairing map. The last equality follows from the definition of R and S.

In order to break the DBP<sub>H</sub> problem, it is sufficient to argue that  $(R, S) \neq (1, 1)$ . From our contradiction assumption,  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a Type-II forgery, then it must satisfy  $S = A^* (B^*)^{-u_1 - \sum_j v_{1j} m_j^*} \neq 1$  and  $R = (C^*)^{-1} (B^*)^{u_2 + \sum_j v_{2j} m_j^*} \neq 1$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  returns (R, S) as a non-trivial solution for the DBP<sub>H</sub> instance. Thus we have,

<span id="page-9-1"></span>
$$Pr[E] \le Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DBP_{\mathbb{H}}}. (4)$$

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Lemma 4** If  $DDH_{\mathbb{G}}$  assumption holds in  $\mathcal{P}$ , then  $Game_{k-1} \approx_c Game_k$ , for  $k \in [1,q]$ .

*Proof.* Suppose there exists a PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , who distinguishes  $\mathsf{Game}_{k-1}$  from  $\mathsf{Game}_k$  with some non-negligible probability under the condition that  $\mathcal{A}$ 

{10}------------------------------------------------

returns a Type-I forgery. Then we construct a simulator  $\mathcal{B}$  to break the DDH<sub>G</sub> assumption as follows.  $\mathcal{B}$  is given  $\Theta$ ,  $g^a$ ,  $g^b$ ,  $g^{ab+\theta}$  and his goal is to decide whether  $\theta = 0 \mod p$  or not. Now  $\mathcal{B}$  chooses  $\delta_0$ ,  $\tilde{u}_1$ ,  $\tilde{u}_2$ , t uniformly at random from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  and implicitly sets  $u_1 = \tilde{u}_1 + tb/\delta_0$  and  $u_2 = \tilde{u}_2 + tb$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also chooses  $h_z$  uniformly at random from  $\mathbb{H}$  and defines  $h_0 = h_z^{\delta_0}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  defines  $\delta_{10} := u_2 - \delta_0 u_1 = \tilde{u}_2 - \delta_0 \tilde{u}_1$  and hence s/he simulates  $h_{10}$  as  $h_z^{\tilde{u}_2 - \delta_0 \tilde{u}_1}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  also chooses  $v_{1j}, v_{2j}$  uniformly at random from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  and defines  $h_j$  as  $h_z^{v_{2j} - \delta_0 v_{1j}}$ . Here PK consists of  $\{h_z, h_0, h_{10}, \{h_j\}_{j=1}^{\ell}\}$ , which is then sent to  $\mathcal{A}$ . Notice that  $\mathcal{B}$  can simulate the SK components g,  $\{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$  along with  $\delta_0$ . However,  $\mathcal{B}$  can simulate  $U_1 := g^{\tilde{u}_1}(g^b)^{t/\delta_0}$  and  $U_2 = g^{\tilde{u}_2}(g^b)^t$ , so that he can answer for the signing queries.  $\mathcal{B}$  computes  $V_{1j} := g^{v_{1j}}, V_{2j} := g^{v_{2j}}$ , for  $j \in [1, \ell]$ .

After receiving PK,  $\mathcal{A}$  makes signing queries on some message  $\mathbf{m}_i = (m_{i1}, \ldots, m_{i\ell})$ . For the first k-1 (resp. last q-k) queries,  $\mathcal{B}$  uses  $\mathsf{Sign}_B$  (resp.  $\mathsf{Sign}_A$ ) algorithm to answer for signing queries, as he knows the components  $g, U_1, U_2, \{V_{1j}, V_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$  as well as  $\delta_0$ . In particular,  $\mathsf{Sign}_B$  queries are answered by computing  $\sigma_i = (A_i, B_i, C_i)$ , where

$$A_i = (U_1 \prod_j V_{1j}^{m_{ij}})^r g^{s/\delta_0}, \quad B_i = g^r, \quad C_i = (U_2 \prod_j V_{2j}^{m_{ij}})^r g^s$$

and r, s are chosen uniformly at random from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . However,  $\mathsf{Sign}_A$  queries are answered by letting s = 0 in the above signature obtained using  $\mathsf{Sign}_B$  algorithm. For the k-th query,  $\mathcal{B}$  embeds the DDH instance to construct the signature  $\sigma_k = (A_k, B_k, C_k)$ , where  $B_k := g^a$  and

$$A_{k} := (g^{a})^{\tilde{u}_{1}} (g^{ab+\theta})^{t/\delta_{0}} (g^{a})^{\sum_{j} v_{1j} m_{kj}} = g^{a \left((\tilde{u}_{1} + tb/\delta_{0}) + \sum_{j} v_{1j} m_{kj}\right)} g^{t\theta/\delta_{0}}$$

$$= g^{a(u_{1} + \sum_{j} v_{1j} m_{kj}) + t\theta/\delta_{0}},$$

$$C_{k} := (g^{a})^{\tilde{u}_{2}} (g^{ab+\theta})^{t} (g^{a})^{\sum_{j} v_{2j} m_{kj}} = g^{a \left((\tilde{u}_{2} + tb) + \sum_{j} v_{2j} m_{kj}\right)} g^{t\theta},$$

$$= g^{a(u_{2} + \sum_{j} v_{2j} m_{kj}) + t\theta}.$$

In the above derivation, we re-arrange the terms appropriately and use the definition of  $u_1$  and  $u_2$ . Note that the exponent a from the DDH instance is used to simulate the signature randomness whereas  $s = t\theta \mod p$ . Suppose  $\theta = 0 \mod p$ , then  $s = 0 \mod p$ , i.e., the signature  $\sigma_k$  is distributed as an output of  $\operatorname{Sign}_A$ . If  $\theta \neq 0 \mod p$ , then  $s \neq 0 \mod p$ , i.e., the signature  $\sigma_k$  is distributed as an output of  $\operatorname{Sign}_B$  with non-zero exponent  $s = t\theta \mod p$ .

Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a forgery  $(\boldsymbol{m}^*, \sigma^*)$ . As before,  $\mathcal{B}$  checks (i) the forgery is valid and (ii) the message  $\boldsymbol{m}^* = (m_1^*, \dots, m_\ell^*)$  is not queried earlier. Note that  $\sigma_k$  is generated using the DDH instance. Since  $\mathcal{B}$  knows  $\delta_0, U_1, U_2$  and all the other secret key components,  $\mathcal{B}$  can generate the k-th signature of any type properly. However,  $\mathcal{B}$  cannot on her/his own decide the type of the signatures generated using the problem instance, as s/he cannot compute  $S_1^*$  and  $S_2^*$  which uses the exponents  $u_1$  and  $u_2$ . In other words,  $\mathcal{B}$  needs to rely on the advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$ .

From Lemma 3, under DBP assumption,  $\mathcal{A}$  only returns a Type-I forgery. Also from our initial contradiction assumption,  $\mathcal{A}$  distinguishes between  $\mathsf{Game}_{k-1}$ 

{11}------------------------------------------------

and  $\mathsf{Game}_k$  with some non-negligible probability. So  $\mathcal{B}$  leverages  $\mathcal{A}$  to break the DDH assumption. Thus we have,

<span id="page-11-1"></span>
$$\left| A dv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{k}-1}} - A dv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{k}}} \right| \le A dv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DDH_{\mathbb{G}}}. \tag{5}$$

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Lemma 5** If  $DBP_{\mathbb{H}}$  assumption holds in  $\mathcal{P}$ , then  $Adv^{\mathsf{Game_q}}$  is negligible.

Proof. Suppose there exists a PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ , who wins in  $\mathsf{Game}_q$  and produces a Type-I forgery with some non-negligible probability. Then we construct a simulator  $\mathcal{B}$  to break the DBP<sub>H</sub> assumption as follows.  $\mathcal{B}$  is given  $\Theta$  and  $h_r, h_s$  from  $\mathbb{H}$  and his goal is to compute  $(R, S) \neq (1, 1)$  from  $\mathbb{G}^2$  such that  $e(R, h_r)e(S, h_s) = 1$ . Now  $\mathcal{B}$  sets  $h_z := h_r$ ,  $h_z^{\delta_0} := h_s$  and implicitly sets  $u_1 := \tilde{u}_1 - t/\delta_0$  and  $u_2 := \tilde{u}_2 - t$ , for randomly chosen  $\tilde{u}_1, \tilde{u}_2, t$  from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . Thus  $\mathcal{B}$  can simulate  $U_1' := g^{\tilde{u}_1} = g^{u_1 + t/\delta_0}$  and  $U_2' := g^{\tilde{u}_2} = g^{u_2 + t}$ . Next  $\mathcal{B}$  chooses  $\{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$  uniformly at random from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  and implicitly sets  $\delta_{10} := u_2 - \delta_0 u_1 = \tilde{u}_2 - \delta_0 \tilde{u}_1$  and  $\delta_j := v_{2j} - \delta_0 v_{1j}$ , for  $j \in [1, \ell]$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  computes  $h_{10} = h_z^{\delta_{10}} = h_r^{\tilde{u}_2} h_s^{-\tilde{u}_1}$  and  $h_j = h_z^{\delta_j} = h_r^{v_{2j}} h_s^{-v_{1j}}$ , for  $j \in [1, \ell]$ . Now  $\mathcal{B}$  defines the PK as  $(h_z, h_0, h_{10}, \{h_j\}_{j=1}^{\ell})$ . Notice that  $\mathcal{B}$  knows the secret exponents  $\{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}_{j=1}^{\ell}$ . Hence  $\mathcal{B}$  computes  $V_{1j} = g^{v_{1j}}, V_{2j} = g^{v_{1j}}$ , for  $j \in [1, \ell]$ .

After receiving PK,  $\mathcal{A}$  makes signing oracle queries on the message  $\mathbf{m}_i = (m_{i1}, \ldots, m_{i\ell})$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  answers the  $\mathsf{Sign}_B$  queries by computing  $\sigma_i = (A_i, B_i, C_i)$ , where  $B_i := g^r$  and

$$A_i := \left(U_1' \prod_j V_{1j}^{m_{ij}}\right)^r = \left(g^{u_1 + t/\delta_0} \prod_j (g^{v_{1j}})^{m_{ij}}\right)^r = g^{r(u_1 + \sum_j v_{1j} m_{ij}) + rt/\delta_0},$$

$$C_i := \left(U_2' \prod_j V_{2j}^{m_{ij}}\right)^r = \left(g^{u_2 + t} \prod_j (g^{v_{2j}})^{m_{ij}}\right)^r = g^{r(u_2 + \sum_j v_{2j} m_{ij}) + rt},$$

for r randomly chosen from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . From the above derivation, it is clear that signature  $\sigma_i$  is properly distributed as an output of  $\operatorname{Sign}_B$  with s = rt modulo p. Finally  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a forgery  $(\boldsymbol{m}^*, \sigma^*)$ , where  $\boldsymbol{m}^* = (m_1^*, \dots, m_\ell^*)$  and  $\sigma^* = (A^*, B^*, C^*)$ . As before,  $\mathcal{B}$  checks (i) the forgery is valid and (ii)  $\boldsymbol{m}^*$  is not queried earlier. If any of these checks fail to hold then  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts. Otherwise,  $\mathcal{B}$  breaks the DBP assumption as follows.

From the contradiction assumption,  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a Type-I forgery with some non-negligible probability. Then,  $\mathcal{B}$  can write the Type-I forgery components as,  $A^* = g^{r(u_1 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{1j} m_j^*)}$ ,  $B^* = g^r$  and  $C^* = g^{r(u_2 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{2j} m_j^*)}$ , for some  $r \in \mathbb{Z}_p$ . Now  $\mathcal{B}$  computes

$$S = A^*(B^*)^{-\tilde{u}_1 - \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{1j} m_j^*} = g^{r(\tilde{u}_1 - t/\delta_0) - r\tilde{u}_1} = g^{-rt/\delta_0},$$

$$R = (C^*)^{-1}(B^*)^{\tilde{u}_2 + \sum_{j=1}^{\ell} v_{2j} m_j^*} = g^{-r(\tilde{u}_2 - t) + r\tilde{u}_2} = g^{rt}.$$

In the above derivation, we have used the definition of  $u_1 = \tilde{u}_1 - t/\delta_0$  and  $u_2 = \tilde{u}_2 - t$ . Then one can verify that  $e(R, h_r)e(S, h_s) = e(g^{rt}, h_z)e(g^{-rt/\delta_0}, h_z^{\delta_0}) = 1$ ,

{12}------------------------------------------------

here we have used the values of  $h_r$  and  $h_s$ . From the verification Equation 2,  $B^* \neq 1$  holds and hence  $R \neq 1$  holds. In other words, (R, S) is a non-trivial solution of  $DBP_{\mathbb{H}}$  problem instance. Thus we have,

<span id="page-12-1"></span>
$$Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{\mathsf{Game}_{\mathsf{q}}} \le Adv_{\mathcal{B}}^{DBP_{\mathbb{H}}}.\tag{6}$$

#### 3.4 Comparison

In Table 2, we compare our rerandomizable signature scheme with some existing schemes in the prime-order pairing setting. We use the following metrics: public key size (denoted as |PK|), signature size (denoted as  $|\sigma|$ ), signing cost, verification cost and the computational assumption required to prove unforgeability.

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Table 2.** Comparing rerandomizable signatures for multiple block messages.

|          | PK                                              | $ \sigma $       | Signing Cost                                  | Verification Cost                                                        | Assum. |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------|------------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| PS-RRS   | $(\ell+2) \mathbb{H} $                          | $ 2 \mathbb{G} $ | $ 2E_{\mathbb{G}} $                           | $\left[2\mathbb{P}+\ell(E_{\mathbb{H}}+M_{\mathbb{H}})\right]$           | PS     |
| LMPY-RS  | $(2\ell+5) \mathbb{G}  + (2\ell+6) \mathbb{H} $ | $4 \mathbb{G} $  | $6E_{\mathbb{G}} + (2\ell + 2)M_{\mathbb{G}}$ | $5\mathbb{P} + 3M_{\mathbb{G}_T} + 2\ell M_{\mathbb{H}}$                 | SXDH   |
| RRS §3.1 | $(\ell+3) \mathbb{H} $                          | $3 \mathbb{G} $  | $3E_{\mathbb{G}}$                             | $3\mathbb{P} + M_{\mathbb{G}_T} + \ell(E_{\mathbb{H}} + M_{\mathbb{H}})$ | SXDH   |

For any group  $X \in \{\mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T\}$ ,  $E_X, M_X$  respectively denote the cost of exponentiation, multiplication in X and |X| is the bit size of X whereas  $\mathbb{P}$  denotes pairing computation cost. PS denote the interactive assumption used in [26].

We denote PS-RRS to be the rerandomizable signature scheme described in [26]. As we can see, PS-RRS is an efficient scheme in terms of the size of the public key and signature as well as the running time of signing and verification algorithms. However, unforgeability of the PS-RRS scheme is proved under an interactive assumption [26, Assumption 1].

Libert et al's [21] randomizable signature scheme (LMPY-RS) is currently the most efficient one under the SXDH assumption. Here the size of the public key and running time of the signing algorithm are at least three times that of the PS-RRS scheme whereas, the signature size is double and the verification time is two and a half times that of the PS-RRS scheme.

The performance of the RRS scheme proposed in this paper is roughly two times better than that of LMPY-RS scheme, in terms of public key size and running time of the signing and verification algorithms, whereas our scheme has three signature components instead of four in LMPY-RS. Compared to the PS-RRS scheme, our scheme requires just one additional group element  $\mathbb{H}$  in the public key and only one additional exponentiation in  $\mathbb{G}$  for signing and one additional pairing plus a single multiplication in  $\mathbb{G}_T$  for signature verification. However, in contrast to the interactive assumption used in [26], security of our scheme requires only the SXDH assumption.

{13}------------------------------------------------

# <span id="page-13-0"></span>4 Sequential Aggregate Signature

In this section, we present a sequential aggregate signature (SeqAS) scheme with constant-size public key and signature and prove its unforgeability under the SXDH assumption. Like [16], our construction uses both 'randomness re-use' and 'public key sharing' techniques.

#### 4.1 Construction

The starting point of the SeqAS is our RRS scheme. We observe that the LMPY-RS scheme does not allow signature aggregation. For that, it seems necessary to make one element of the trapdoor key of the underlying knowledge system, namely  $\delta_0$ , publicly available. However, in that case, the security reduction no longer works. We resolve this issue, by first letting the setup authority choose  $u_1, u_2, \delta_0$  from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  and define  $\delta_{10} = u_2 - \delta_0 u_1$ . Then the *j*-th signer chooses  $v_{1j}, v_{2j}$  from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  and implicitly defines  $\delta_j = v_{2j} - \delta_0 v_{1j}$ . Note that the above changes are possible as, unlike [21], our scheme uses simulated QA-NIZK proof component.

To construct the SeqAS scheme, we thus extend the RRS structure to the multi-user setting. Recall that our RRS signature is of the form  $g^{r(u_1+\sum_j v_{1j}m_j)}, g^r$  and  $g^{r(u_2+\sum_j v_{2j}m_j)}$ . As mentioned above we treat  $v_{1j}$  and  $v_{2j}$  as the j-th signer's secret key. However, to apply the 'public key sharing' technique [16],  $g, g^{u_1}$  and  $g^{u_2}$  need to be made public for aggregation and  $h_z, h_0, h_{10}$  are also needed for verification. This implies that the public parameter AS.PP of the SeqAS scheme consists of  $\{g, U_1 = g^{u_1}, U_2 = g^{u_2}, h_z, h_0 = h_z^{\delta_0}, h_{10} = h_z^{u_2}h_0^{-u_1}\}$ . Then, the j-th signer implicitly sets  $\delta_j = v_{2j} - \delta_0 v_{1j}$ , where the corresponding secret key  $SK_j$  contains  $\{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}$  and the verification key  $PK_j$  contains  $\{h_j = h_z^{\delta_j} = h_z^{v_{2j}}h_0^{-v_{1j}}\}$ .

Now we explain, how to aggregate the signature using 'randomness re-use' technique. Consider a message  $m_1$  which is signed by the first user using  $SK_1 = \{v_{11}, v_{21}\}$  by computing  $\sigma_1 = (A_1, B_1, C_1)$ , where  $A_1 = (U_1 g^{v_{11}m_1})^{t_1}$ ,  $B_1 = g^{t_1}, C_1 = (U_2 g^{v_{21}m_1})^{t_1}$ , for some  $t_1$  randomly chosen from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . Then, given  $(m_1, \sigma_1)$ , the second user uses  $SK_2 = \{v_{12}, v_{22}\}$  to compute the aggregate signature  $\sigma_2 = (A_2, B_2, C_2)$  on the message  $m_2$ , where  $A_2 = (A_1 B_1^{v_{12}m_2})^{t_2}, B_2 = B_1^{t_2}, C_2 = (C_1 B_1^{v_{22}m_2})^{t_2}$ , for  $t_2$  randomly chosen from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ . In the same way, we can extend the above procedure for polynomial many aggregation. We present our SeqAS construction in Table 3.

Correctness Note that the verification Equation 7 of the SeqAS scheme is same as the verification Equation 2 of our RRS scheme. Hence, it is sufficient to ensure the resulting aggregate signature can be written explicitly as in the RRS scheme. This will guarantee the correctness of the SeqAS scheme. Now we establish the structure of the signature returned by AS.Sign using mathematical induction. If s = 0, then AS.Sign sets  $\sigma = (A, B, C) = (g^{u_1}, g, g^{u_2})$  and computes the signature  $\sigma_1 = (A_1, B_1, C_1)$  on the message  $m_1$ , where  $A_1 = (AB^{v_{11}m_1})^t = (AB^{v_{11}m_1})^t = (AB^{v_{11}m_1})^t$ 

{14}------------------------------------------------

<span id="page-14-0"></span>Table 3. SeqAS scheme in the prime-order setting.

# **AS.Setup**( $\lambda$ ) Run $\mathcal{P}(\lambda) \to (p, \mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T, e, g, h)$ , where $g \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{G}, h \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{H}$ . Choose $u_1, u_2, \delta_0 \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p, h_z \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{H}$ , define $\delta_{10} := u_2 - \delta_0 u_1$ and compute $U_1 = g^{u_1}, U_2 = g^{u_2}, h_0 = h_z^{\delta_0}, h_{10} = h_z^{\delta_{10}}.$ Return $AS.PP := \{p, \mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T, e, g, h, U_1, U_2, h_z, h_0, h_{10}\}.$ AS.KeyGen(AS.PP)Choose $v_{1j}, v_{2j} \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p$ and compute $h_j := h_z^{v_{2j}} h_0^{-v_{1j}}$ . Return $(SK_i := \{v_{1i}, v_{2i}\}, PK_i := \{h_i\}).$ **AS.Sign**(SK, $m = (m_1, ..., m_s), \sigma, (PK_1, ..., PK_s), m$ ) Check the following, If s=0, then set $\sigma=(U_1,q,U_2)$ , If s > 0 and AS. Ver $((PK_1, \ldots, PK_s), (m_1, \ldots, m_s), \sigma) = 0$ , then it halts, If m=0 or any of $m_i=0$ , then it halts, If for some $j \in [1, s]$ such that $PK_j = PK$ , then it halts, Suppose the algorithm did not halt, then parse SK as $\{v_{1\tau}, v_{2\tau}\}$ , PK as $\{h_{\tau}\}$ , $\sigma$ as (A, B, C). Select $t \stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow} \mathbb{Z}_p$ and compute $A' = (AB^{v_{1\tau}m})^t$ , $B' = B^t$ and $C' = (CB^{v_{2\tau}m})^t$ . Return $((m_1, ..., m_s, m), \sigma' = (A', B', C')).$ **AS.Ver**( $AS.PP, (PK_1, ..., PK_s), (m_1, ..., m_s), \sigma = (A, B, C)$ ) Parse $PK_j = \{h_j\}$ , for all $j \in [1, s]$ and check whether $m_i = 0$ or $PK_i = PK_j$ for any $i \neq j$ and $i, j \in [1, s]$ . If any of the above conditions hold, then abort, otherwise check $B \neq 1$ and $e(A, h_0)e(B, h_{10} \prod_{j=1}^{s} h_j^{m_j}) = e(C, h_z).$ (7)

<span id="page-14-1"></span>If the above two conditions hold, then return *accept*, otherwise return *reject*.

 $g^{t(u_1+v_{11}m_1)},\ B_1=B^t=g^t$  and  $C_1=(CB^{v_{12}m_1})^t=g^{t(u_2+v_{12}m_1)}.$  Let's assume that after k many aggregation, the aggregate signature  $\sigma_k=(A_k,B_k,C_k)$  on the messages  $(m_1,\ldots,m_k)$  under the public keys  $(PK_1,\ldots,PK_k)$  can be written as  $A_k=g^{r(u_1+\sum_{j=1}^k v_{1j}m_j)},\ B_k=g^r,\ C_k=g^{r(u_2+\sum_{j=1}^k v_{2j}m_j)},\ \text{for some }r\in\mathbb{Z}_p.$  Now we prove that the aggregate signature  $\sigma_{k+1}=(A_{k+1},B_{k+1},C_{k+1})$  of the messages  $(m_1,\ldots,m_k,m_{k+1})$  under  $(PK_1,\ldots,PK_k,PK_{k+1})$  can be written explicitly as in Table 3. Observe that from the definition of AS.Sign, we can write  $A_{k+1}=(A_kB_k^{v_{1k+1}m_{k+1}})^t=g^{rt(u_1+\sum_{j=1}^{k+1} v_{1j}m_j)},\ B_{k+1}=B_k^t=g^{rt}$  and  $C_{k+1}=(C_kB_k^{v_{2k+1}m_{k+1}})^t=g^{rt(u_2+\sum_{j=1}^{k+1} v_{2j}m_j)},\ \text{for }t\stackrel{\$}{\leftarrow}\mathbb{Z}_p.$  Thus the resulting signature  $\sigma_{k+1}$  is distributed as similar to the RRS scheme of §3.1. Hence correctness of the SeqAS scheme follows from that of RRS scheme.

{15}------------------------------------------------

### 4.2 Security

We argue the unforgeability of SeqAS scheme in the certified public key setting [23], see Appendix A.3 for the formal security definition. Informally, given the public key and access to join and signing oracle queries, the adversary cannot produce a valid forgery.

We give a reduction from the security of our RRS scheme. In the certified public key model, the adversary gives both public and secret keys to the simulator. Hence simulator knows all the secret keys except the secret key of the underlying RRS scheme (for single message). The simulator responds to an aggregate signature query by first obtaining a signature of the underlying RRS from its challenger and then constructing the aggregate signature. From the aggregate signature structure, which can be viewed as a linear function of the secret exponents, the aggregation is oblivious to the order in which the messages are signed. Once the adversary returns a non-trivial forgery, the simulator extracts the forgery for the underlying RRS scheme by using the secret keys of all the other signers.

**Theorem 6** If RRS scheme is EUF-CMA secure, then SeqAS scheme is EUF-CMA secure in the certified public key setting.

*Proof.* Suppose there exists a PPT adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  who breaks the EUF-CMA security of SeqAS scheme in the certified public key setting, with some non-negligible probability. Then we construct a simulator  $\mathcal{B}$  that breaks the EUF-CMA security of the RRS scheme as follows.

**Setup:** First,  $\mathcal{B}$  initializes the key list KeyList as empty. Next  $\mathcal{B}$  obtains the public parameter PP as  $(p, \mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T, e, \tilde{g}, h)$  along with the public-key PK as  $\{h_z, h_0, h_{10}, h_{\tau}\}$ , from his challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  sets  $PK^* = h_{\tau}$ . Now  $\mathcal{B}$  requests a signature query on zero message to  $\mathcal{C}$ . Then  $\mathcal{C}$  returns  $\sigma_0 = (A_0, B_0, C_0) = (\tilde{g}^{ru_1}, \tilde{g}^r, \tilde{g}^{ru_2})$ , for some  $r \in \mathbb{Z}_p$ . Now  $\mathcal{B}$  assigns  $g := B_0, U_1 := A_0, U_2 := C_0$  and computes the public parameter for our SeqAS scheme as,  $AS.PP := \{g, h, U_1, U_2, h_z, h_0, h_{10}\}$ . Then  $\mathcal{B}$  forwards AS.PP and  $PK^*$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Join Query:**  $\mathcal{A}$  makes the join queries by sending the key pair  $SK_j = \{v_{1j}, v_{2j}\}$  and  $PK_j = \{h_j\}$  to  $\mathcal{B}$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  checks whether  $(SK_j, PK_j)$  are generated correctly by checking

<span id="page-15-0"></span>
$$h_j \stackrel{?}{=} h_z^{v_{2j}} h_0^{-v_{1j}}. (8)$$

For correctly generated key pair  $(SK_j, PK_j)$ ,  $\mathcal{B}$  adds it in the KeyList.

Signing Query:  $\mathcal{A}$  makes a sequential aggregate signature query on the message  $m_i$  to  $\mathcal{B}$  by sending an aggregate signature  $\sigma_i$  on the messages  $(m_{i1}, \ldots, m_{is_i})$  under the public keys  $(PK_{i1}, \ldots, PK_{is_i})$ .  $\mathcal{B}$  aborts, if any of the following condition holds, (i) if  $s_i > 0$  and the aggregate signature  $\sigma_i$  is invalid, (ii) if there exists  $j \in [1, s_i]$  such that  $PK_{ij}$  does not belong to KeyList, (iii) if there exists some  $j \in [1, s_i]$  such that  $PK_{ij} = PK^*$ . Otherwise,  $\mathcal{B}$  requests a signature query on  $m_i$  to his challenger  $\mathcal{C}$ , which returns  $\sigma = (A, B, C)$ .

{16}------------------------------------------------

Note that, all the public keys  $PK_{ij}$  involved in the signing queries are certified before. Hence,  $\mathcal{B}$  knows the associated key pairs  $(SK_{ij}, PK_{ij})$ , for all  $j \in [1, s_i]$ . Then,  $\mathcal{B}$  parses  $SK_{ij}$  as  $\{v_{1ij}, v_{2ij}\}$ . Next,  $\mathcal{B}$  chooses t uniformly at random from  $\mathbb{Z}_p$  and computes the aggregate signature  $\sigma'_i = (A'_i, B'_i, C'_i)$ , where  $A'_i = (AB^{\sum_{j=1}^{s_i} v_{1ij}m_{ij}})^t$ ,  $B'_i = B^t$ ,  $C'_i = (CB^{\sum_{j=1}^{s_i} v_{2ij}m_{ij}})^t$ . It is easy to see that the signature generated above is properly distributed. From the linear structure of the signature exponents, the order of aggregation does not matter. Hence,  $\sigma'_i$  is a valid aggregate signature on  $(m_{i1}, \ldots, m_{is_i}, m_i)$  under the public keys  $(PK_{i1}, \ldots, PK_{is_i}, PK^*)$ .

**Output:** After q many number of aggregate signature queries,  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a forgery  $\sigma^* = (A^*, B^*, C^*)$  on the messages  $(m_1^*, \ldots, m_s^*)$  under the public keys  $(PK_1, \ldots, PK_s)$ . Now  $\mathcal{B}$  ensures the validity of the forgery, if the following conditions are satisfied,

- i.  $AS.Ver((PK_1, ..., PK_s), \sigma^*, (m_1^*, ..., m_s^*)) = 1,$
- ii. For all  $PK_i \neq PK^*$ ,  $PK_i \in KeyList$ ,
- iii. There exists one  $j^* \in [1, s]$ ,  $PK^* = PK_{j^*}$  and  $m_{j^*}^* \neq m_i$ , for all  $i \in [1, q]$ .

Condition (i) ensures that the forgery  $\sigma^*$  satisfies the verification Equation 7. Whereas, the condition (ii) ensures that  $\mathcal{B}$  knows all the secret key  $SK_j$  components such that Equation 8 holds, for the associated keys  $PK_j \neq PK^*$ . Recall that the public keys are generated independently by each of signer. Also the condition (iii) ensures that the aggregate signature forgery includes the challenge public key  $PK^*$  as part of the aggregation. Now  $\mathcal{B}$  computes the rerandomizable signature forgery  $\sigma_m^* = (A_m^*, B_m^*, C_m^*)$ , where  $A_m^* = A^*(B^*)^{-\sum_{j\neq j^*} v_{1j} m_j^*}$ ,  $B_m^* = B^*$  and  $C_m^* = C^*(B^*)^{-\sum_{j\neq j^*} v_{2j} m_j^*}$ . Next we prove that the above constructed rerandomizable signature  $\sigma_m^*$  satisfies the verification Equation 2 as follows,

$$e(C_{m}^{*}, h_{z}) = e(C^{*}(B^{*})^{-\sum_{j \neq j^{*}} v_{2j} m_{j}^{*}}, h_{z}) = e(C^{*}, h_{z})e((B^{*})^{-\sum_{j \neq j^{*}} v_{2j} m_{j}^{*}}, h_{z})$$

$$= (e(A^{*}, h_{0})e(B^{*}, h_{10}h_{\tau}^{m_{j^{*}}^{*}} \prod_{j \neq j^{*}} h_{j}^{m_{j}^{*}}))e((B^{*})^{-\sum_{j \neq j^{*}} v_{2j} m_{j}^{*}}, h_{z})$$

$$= e(A^{*}, h_{0})e(B^{*}, h_{10}h_{\tau}^{m_{j^{*}}^{*}})e(B^{*}, \prod_{j \neq j^{*}} h_{z}^{(v_{2j} - \delta_{0}v_{1j})m_{j}^{*}})e(B^{*}, \prod_{j \neq j^{*}} h_{z}^{-v_{2j}m_{j}^{*}})$$

$$= e(A^{*}(B^{*})^{-\sum_{j \neq j^{*}} v_{1j} m_{j}^{*}}, h_{0})e(B^{*}, h_{10}h_{\tau}^{m_{j^{*}}^{*}})$$

$$= e(A_{m}^{*}, h_{0})e(B_{m}^{*}, h_{10}h_{\tau}^{m_{j^{*}}^{*}}).$$

The first equality is obtained by using the value of  $C_m^*$  and the second equality is obtained by using the bilinearity of the pairing. Third equality is obtained from the verification Equation 7 and the fourth equality is obtained by using the definition of  $\delta_j$  and bilinearity. The fifth equality is obtained by canceling the  $v_{2j}$  terms. The final equality is obtained using the values of  $A_m^*$  and  $B_m^*$ .

The condition (iii) of aggregate signature forgery ensures the non-trivial forgery with respect to the queried messages. Hence, the resulted forgery  $\sigma_m^*$  on the message  $m_{j^*}^*$  under  $PK^*$  is clearly a valid forgery for the RRS scheme.  $\square$ 

{17}------------------------------------------------

#### 4.3 Comparison

We compare our SeqAS scheme with the existing schemes in Table 4. We consider all the sequential aggregate signature schemes in asymmetric pairing setting [6] whose unforgeability is proved in the certified public key setting (see Appendix A.3) in the standard model. Here we use the following metrics: public key size (denoted as |PK|), aggregate signature size (denoted as |AS|), signing and verification cost and the computational assumption required to prove unforgeability of the aggregate signature scheme.

<span id="page-17-0"></span>**Table 4.** Comparing sequential aggregate signature schemes using certified public key setting in the standard model.

| Scheme     | PK                                                            | AS              | Signing cost                                                             | Verification cost                                      | Assumption |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|------------|
| LOSSW-3a   | $\lambda  \mathbb{G}  + \lambda  \mathbb{H} _{2 \mathbb{G} }$ |                 | $2\mathbb{P} + \ell M_{\mathbb{G}_T} + (\ell - 1)\lambda M_{\mathbb{H}}$ | $2\mathbb{P} + \ell M_{\mathbb{G}_T}$                  | CDH        |
| LOSS W 6a  | $+1 \mathbb{G}_T $                                            | 2101            | $+6E_{\mathbb{G}}+(2\ell\lambda+6)M_{\mathbb{G}}$                        | $+\ell\lambda M_{\mathbb{H}}$                          |            |
| SAS1       | $ 2 \mathbb{G}  + 8 \mathbb{H} $                              | $8 \mathbb{G} $ | $8\mathbb{P} + (4\ell + 14)E_{\mathbb{H}}$                               | $8\mathbb{P} + 1E_{\mathbb{G}_T}$                      | SXDH, DBDH |
| 57151      | $+1 \mathbb{G}_T $                                            |                 | $+10E_{\mathbb{G}}+1E_{\mathbb{G}_T}$                                    | $+(4\ell + 14)\bar{E}_{\mathbb{H}}$                    | LW2        |
| SAS2       | $6 \mathbb{G}  + 6 \mathbb{H} $                               | 6 G             | $6\mathbb{P} + (3\ell + 6)\vec{E}_{\mathbb{H}}$                          | $6\mathbb{P} + 1E_{\mathbb{G}_T}$                      | LW1, DBDH  |
| SASZ       | $+1 \mathbb{G}_T $                                            |                 | $+(3\ell+18)E_{\mathbb{G}}+1E_{\mathbb{G}_T}$                            | $+(3\ell+6)\dot{E}_{\mathbb{H}}$                       | LW2        |
| LLY-SeqAS  | 1                                                             | $3 \mathbb{G} $ | $5\mathbb{P} + M_{\mathbb{G}_T} + \ell E_{\mathbb{H}}$                   | $5\mathbb{P} + M_{\mathbb{G}_T} + \ell E_{\mathbb{H}}$ | LRSW       |
| LL1-bcq11b |                                                               |                 | $+2\ell M_{\mathbb{H}} + 5E_{\mathbb{G}} + 2M_{\mathbb{G}}$              | $+2\ell M_{\mathbb{H}}$                                |            |
| PS-SeqAS   | $1 \mathbb{H} $                                               | $2 \mathbb{G} $ | $2\mathbb{P} + \ell(E_{\mathbb{H}} + M_{\mathbb{H}})$                    | $2\mathbb{P} + \ell(E_{\mathbb{H}} + M_{\mathbb{H}})$  | PS         |
| 1 b beqrib |                                                               |                 | $+3E_{\mathbb{G}}+1M_{\mathbb{G}}$                                       |                                                        | 1.0        |
| SeqAS      | 1                                                             | $3 \mathbb{G} $ | $3\mathbb{P} + M_{\mathbb{G}_T} + \ell(E_{\mathbb{H}} + M_{\mathbb{H}})$ | $3\mathbb{P} + M_{\mathbb{G}_T}$                       | SXDH       |
| Бефир      |                                                               |                 | $+5\overline{E}_{\mathbb{G}}+2M_{\mathbb{G}}$                            | $+\ell(E_{\mathbb{H}}+\bar{M}_{\mathbb{H}})$           | 571011     |

For any group  $X \in \{\mathbb{G}, \mathbb{H}, \mathbb{G}_T\}$ , we denote  $E_X, M_X$  and |X| be the exponentiation, multiplication in X and bit size of X and  $\mathbb{P}$  denotes asymmetric pairing computation time.  $\lambda$  denotes the security parameter and  $\ell$  denotes the number of signature aggregated so far. PS and LRSW denote the interactive assumptions in [26] and [25].

Chatterjee et al. [5] presented aggregate signature variants of [23] denoted as LOSSW-3a, whose security is proved under the CDH assumption. However, the size of the public key is some multiple of the security parameter  $\lambda$ , where  $\lambda$  takes 256 for the 128 bit-level security. This results in a sequential aggregate signature with a large public key size.

In 2012, Lee et al. [15, Section 3.5] extended the idea from [28] and presented a sequential aggregate signature scheme based on the Camenisch-Lysyanskaya (CL) signature in the asymmetric pairing setting. The resulted scheme is denoted as LLY-SeqAS and it has a constant size public key. The security of the LLY-SeqAS scheme is based on the security of the CL-signature scheme, which is proved under an interactive assumption. In 2015, Lee et al. [19] presented two SeqAS schemes, namely SAS1 and SAS2 schemes. The security of SAS1 is proved under SXDH, DBDH and LW2 assumptions and SAS2 is proved under DBDH, LW1 and LW2 assumptions described in [20]. Note that, both LW1 and LW2 assumptions are non-standard static assumptions whose hardness is established in the generic group model, which provides only the lower bound [13, 29]. They have used the dual system encryption technique to prove the security of their schemes. However, their public key size (resp. aggregate signature size) increases by a factor of 9 (resp. 2) with respect to the LLY-SeqAS construction.

{18}------------------------------------------------

In 2016, [\[26\]](#page-20-2) presented a sequential aggregate signature (denoted as PS-SeqAS) scheme based on their rerandomizable signature construction. One can see that PS-SeqAS is the most efficient scheme among all the SeqAS schemes presented in Table [4.](#page-17-0) However, the security of the PS-SeqAS scheme is proved under an interactive assumption. The performance of our SeqAS scheme is very close to PS-SeqAS even though we argue security under the SXDH assumption. In particular, public key size remains the same in both schemes, whereas signature size increases by one group element in our scheme as compared to the PS-SeqAS scheme. Also, we require one additional pairing and one target group multiplication to verify the signature.

# 5 Concluding Remark

We proposed the first construction of a sequential aggregate signature scheme with constant-size public key in the standard model based on the SXDH assumption in the prime order bilinear pairing setting. This is achieved by suitably modifying a randomizable signature scheme from [\[21\]](#page-19-7). The performance of both the rerandomizable signature scheme and sequential aggregate signature scheme comes quite close to prior proposals where security is based on some interactive assumption.

# References

- <span id="page-18-4"></span>1. Masayuki Abe, Georg Fuchsbauer, Jens Groth, Kristiyan Haralambiev, and Miyako Ohkubo. Structure-preserving signatures and commitments to group elements. J. Cryptology, 29(2):363–421, 2016.
- <span id="page-18-5"></span>2. Patrik Bichsel, Jan Camenisch, Gregory Neven, Nigel P. Smart, and Bogdan Warinschi. Get shorty via group signatures without encryption. In Juan A. Garay and Roberto De Prisco, editors, SCN, volume 6280, pages 381–398, Springer, 2010.
- <span id="page-18-1"></span>3. Dan Boneh, Craig Gentry, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. Aggregate and verifiably encrypted signatures from bilinear maps. In Eli Biham, editor, EUROCRYPT, volume 2656, pages 416–432, Springer, 2003.
- <span id="page-18-0"></span>4. Jan Camenisch and Anna Lysyanskaya. Signature schemes and anonymous credentials from bilinear maps. In Matthew K. Franklin, editor, CRYPTO, volume 3152, pages 56–72, Springer, 2004.
- <span id="page-18-7"></span>5. Sanjit Chatterjee, Darrel Hankerson, Edward Knapp, and Alfred Menezes. Comparing two pairing-based aggregate signature schemes. Des. Codes Cryptography, 55(2-3):141–167, 2010.
- <span id="page-18-6"></span>6. Steven D. Galbraith, Kenneth G. Paterson, and Nigel P. Smart. Pairings for cryptographers. Discrete Applied Mathematics, 156(16):3113–3121, 2008.
- <span id="page-18-2"></span>7. Michael Gerbush, Allison B. Lewko, Adam O'Neill, and Brent Waters. Dual form signatures: An approach for proving security from static assumptions. In Xiaoyun Wang and Kazue Sako, editors, ASIACRYPT, volume 7658, pages 25–42, Springer, 2012.
- <span id="page-18-3"></span>8. Essam Ghadafi. Short structure-preserving signatures. In Sako [\[27\]](#page-20-5), pages 305–321.
- <span id="page-18-8"></span>9. Shafi Goldwasser, Silvio Micali, and Ronald L. Rivest. A "paradoxical" solution to the signature problem (extended abstract). In FOCS, pages 441–448. IEEE Computer Society, 1984.

{19}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-19-15"></span>10. Shafi Goldwasser, Silvio Micali, and Ronald L. Rivest. A digital signature scheme secure against adaptive chosen-message attacks. SIAM J. Comput., 17(2):281–308, 1988.
- <span id="page-19-11"></span>11. Jens Groth. Homomorphic Trapdoor Commitments to Group Elements. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2009:007, 2009.
- <span id="page-19-12"></span>12. Charanjit S. Jutla and Arnab Roy. Switching lemma for bilinear tests and constantsize NIZK proofs for linear subspaces. In Juan A. Garay and Rosario Gennaro, editors, CRYPTO, volume 8617, pages 295–312, Springer, 2014.
- <span id="page-19-14"></span>13. Jonathan Katz, Amit Sahai, and Brent Waters. Predicate encryption supporting disjunctions, polynomial equations, and inner products. In Nigel P. Smart, editor, EUROCRYPT, volume 4965, pages 146–162, Springer, 2008
- <span id="page-19-9"></span>14. Eike Kiltz and Hoeteck Wee. Quasi-adaptive NIZK for linear subspaces revisited. In Elisabeth Oswald and Marc Fischlin, editors, EUROCRYPT, volume 9057, pages 101–128, Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-19-13"></span>15. Kwangsu Lee, Dong Hoon Lee, and Moti Yung. Aggregating cl-signatures revisited: Extended functionality and better efficiency. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2012:562, 2012.
- <span id="page-19-3"></span>16. Kwangsu Lee, Dong Hoon Lee, and Moti Yung. Aggregating cl-signatures revisited: Extended functionality and better efficiency. In Ahmad-Reza Sadeghi, editor, FC, volume 7859, pages 171–188, Springer, 2013.
- <span id="page-19-6"></span>17. Kwangsu Lee, Dong Hoon Lee, and Moti Yung. Sequential aggregate signatures made shorter. In Michael J. Jacobson Jr., Michael E. Locasto, Payman Mohassel, and Reihaneh Safavi-Naini, editors, ACNS, volume 7954, pages 202–217, Springer, 2013.
- <span id="page-19-4"></span>18. Kwangsu Lee, Dong Hoon Lee, and Moti Yung. Sequential aggregate signatures with short public keys: Design, analysis and implementation studies. In Kaoru Kurosawa and Goichiro Hanaoka, editors, PKC, volume 7778, pages 423–442, Springer, 2013.
- <span id="page-19-10"></span>19. Kwangsu Lee, Dong Hoon Lee, and Moti Yung. Sequential aggregate signatures with short public keys without random oracles. Theor. Comput. Sci., 579:100–125, 2015.
- <span id="page-19-5"></span>20. Allison B. Lewko and Brent Waters. New techniques for dual system encryption and fully secure HIBE with short ciphertexts. In Daniele Micciancio, editor, TCC, volume 5978, pages 455–479, Springer, 2010.
- <span id="page-19-7"></span>21. Benoˆıt Libert, Fabrice Mouhartem, Thomas Peters, and Moti Yung. Practical "signatures with efficient protocols" from simple assumptions. In Xiaofeng Chen, XiaoFeng Wang, and Xinyi Huang, editors, AsiaCCS, pages 511–522. ACM, 2016.
- <span id="page-19-8"></span>22. Benoˆıt Libert, Thomas Peters, and Moti Yung. Short group signatures via structure-preserving signatures: Standard model security from simple assumptions. In Rosario Gennaro and Matthew Robshaw, editors, CRYPTO, volume 9216, pages 296–316, Springer, 2015.
- <span id="page-19-1"></span>23. Steve Lu, Rafail Ostrovsky, Amit Sahai, Hovav Shacham, and Brent Waters. Sequential aggregate signatures and multisignatures without random oracles. In Serge Vaudenay, editor, EUROCRYPT, volume 4004, pages 465–485, Springer, 2006.
- <span id="page-19-0"></span>24. Anna Lysyanskaya, Silvio Micali, Leonid Reyzin, and Hovav Shacham. Sequential aggregate signatures from trapdoor permutations. In Christian Cachin and Jan Camenisch, editors, EUROCRYPT, volume 3027, pages 74–90, Springer, 2004.
- <span id="page-19-2"></span>25. Anna Lysyanskaya, Ronald L. Rivest, Amit Sahai, and Stefan Wolf. Pseudonym systems. In Howard M. Heys and Carlisle M. Adams, editors, SAC, volume 1758, pages 184–199, Springer, 1999.

{20}------------------------------------------------

- <span id="page-20-2"></span>26. David Pointcheval and Olivier Sanders. Short randomizable signatures. In Sako [27], pages 111–126.
- <span id="page-20-5"></span>27. Kazue Sako, editor. CT-RSA, volume 9610, Springer, 2016.
- <span id="page-20-1"></span>28. Dominique Schröder. How to aggregate the CL signature scheme. In Vijay Atluri and Claudia Díaz, editors, *ESORICS*, volume 6879, pages 298–314, Springer, 2011.
- <span id="page-20-4"></span>29. Victor Shoup. Lower bounds for discrete logarithms and related problems. In Walter Fumy, editor, *EUROCRYPT*, volume 1233, pages 256–266, Springer, 1997.
- <span id="page-20-0"></span>30. Brent Waters. Efficient identity-based encryption without random oracles. In Ronald Cramer, editor, EUROCRYPT, volume 3494, pages 114–127, Springer, 2005.

## <span id="page-20-3"></span>A Definitions

#### <span id="page-20-6"></span>A.1 Digital Signature

The formal definition of digital signature scheme and its security model were introduced in [9,10]. We recall the definition of digital signature scheme from [8], which consists of four PPT algorithms.

**Setup**(1<sup> $\lambda$ </sup>) Given the security parameter  $\lambda$ , it returns a public parameter PP. Here PP includes the description of the message space  $\mathcal{M}$  and the signature space  $\Sigma$ .

**KeyGen**(PP) Given the public parameter PP, it returns a key pair (PK, SK). We assume that SK contains PK and PK contains PP.

 $\mathbf{Sign}(SK, m)$  Given the message  $m \in \mathcal{M}$  and SK, it returns a signature  $\sigma$  on the message m.

 $\mathbf{Ver}(PK, m, \sigma)$  Given the message and signature pair along with the public key PK, it returns 1 only if  $\sigma$  is a valid signature on the message m under PK.

The digital signature scheme is *correct*, if for all security parameter  $\lambda$ , all  $PP \leftarrow \mathsf{Setup}(1^{\lambda})$ , all  $(PK, SK) \leftarrow \mathsf{KeyGen}(PP)$ , all messages  $m \in \mathcal{M}$  and  $\sigma \leftarrow \mathsf{Sign}(SK, m)$ , it holds that  $\mathsf{Ver}(PK, m, \sigma) = 1$ .

The security of digital signature scheme is captured using the existential unforgeability under chosen message attack (EUF-CMA) model [10] which is defined using the following experiment between a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$  and an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Setup**  $\mathcal{C}$  runs the Setup and KeyGen to obtain (PK, SK).  $\mathcal{A}$  is given with PK. Queries  $\mathcal{A}$  adaptively requests the signature on the message  $m_i$ , for  $i \in [1, q]$ .  $\mathcal{C}$  answers each query by computing  $\sigma_i = \mathsf{Sign}(SK, m_i)$ .

**Output** Finally,  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a message and signature pair  $(m^*, \sigma^*)$  and wins if  $\text{Ver}(PK, m^*, \sigma^*)=1$  with  $m^* \neq m_i$ , for all  $i \in [1, q]$ .

The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  (denoted as  $Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{UF}$ ) is defined to be the probability that  $\mathcal{A}$  wins in the above game. A signature scheme is said to be  $(t, q, \epsilon)$ -secure against existential unforgeability under chosen message attack  $((t, q, \epsilon)$ -EUF-CMA secure), if for any t-time adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that makes at most q many signing oracle queries,  $Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{UF} \leq \epsilon$ , where t and q are the polynomial functions of  $\lambda$  and  $\epsilon$  is a negligible function in  $\lambda$ .

{21}------------------------------------------------

### A.2 Rerandomizable Signature

We recall the definition of rerandomizable signature scheme from [8]. A rerandomizable signature scheme consists of five PPT algorithms (Setup, KeyGen, Sign, Ver, Rand), in which the first four algorithms are defined as in the digital signature scheme, whereas the Rand algorithm is defined as follows.

 $\mathbf{Rand}(PK, m, \sigma)$  Given a PK along with a valid message and signature pair, it returns a new signature  $\sigma'$  on the same message m under PK.

A rerandomizable signature scheme is said to be secure if the scheme satisfies randomizability and unforgeability. Unforgeability is captured using EUF-CMA model as similar to the digital signature scheme described in Appendix A.1. Informally, randomizability ensures that given both PK and SK,  $\mathcal{A}$  cannot decide whether he is given a signature returned by Sign or by Rand algorithm. Formally, it is defined in [8] using the following experiment between a challenger  $\mathcal{C}$  and an adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Setup**  $\mathcal{C}$  runs the **Setup** and **KeyGen** to obtain (PK, SK).  $\mathcal{A}$  is given with PK and SK.

Challenge Phase  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a message and signature pair  $(m^*, \sigma^*)$  to  $\mathcal{C}$  who chooses a random bit  $b \in \{0, 1\}$ . If b = 0, then  $\mathcal{C}$  computes  $\sigma_0 = \mathsf{Sign}(\mathsf{SK}, \mathsf{m}^*)$ , else computes  $\sigma_1 = \mathsf{Rand}(\mathsf{PK}, \mathsf{m}^*, \sigma^*)$ . Then,  $\mathcal{C}$  sends  $\sigma_b$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Output** Finally  $\mathcal{A}$  returns a bit b' and wins if  $\text{Ver}(PK, m^*, \sigma^*)=1$  and b'=b.

The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  is defined as  $Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{Rand} = |Pr[b'=b]-1/2|$ . A randomizable signature scheme is said to be  $(t,\epsilon)$ -secure against randomizability, if for any t-time adversary  $\mathcal{A}$ ,  $Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{Rand} \leq \epsilon$ , where t is a polynomial function of  $\lambda$  and  $\epsilon$  is a negligible function in  $\lambda$ . If  $\epsilon = 0$ , then we say that the scheme satisfies perfect randomizability.

#### <span id="page-21-0"></span>A.3 Sequential Aggregate Signature

The notion of sequential aggregate signature scheme was introduced by Lysyanskaya et al. [24]. Here we recall the definition of sequential aggregate signature scheme from [23]. A sequential aggregate signature scheme is defined using four PPT algorithms which are described below.

- **AS.Setup**(1<sup> $\lambda$ </sup>) Given the security parameter  $\lambda$ , it returns a public parameter PP.
- **AS.KeyGen**(PP) Given the public parameter PP, it returns a key pair (PK, SK). We assume that SK contains PK and PK contains PP.
- **AS.Sign** $(SK, (m_1, \ldots, m_s), \sigma, (PK_1, \ldots, PK_s), m)$  Given an aggregate signature  $\sigma$  on the messages  $(m_1, \ldots, m_s)$  under the public keys  $(PK_1, \ldots, PK_s)$ , a message m and a secret key SK such that the associated public key  $PK \notin \{PK_j\}_{j=1}^s$ , it returns a new aggregate signature  $\sigma'$  on the messages  $(m_1, \ldots, m_s, m)$  under the public keys  $(PK_1, \ldots, PK_s, PK)$ .

{22}------------------------------------------------

**AS.Ver** $((PK_1, \ldots, PK_s), (m_1, \ldots, m_s), \sigma)$  Given the public keys  $(PK_1, \ldots, PK_s)$ , messages  $(m_1, \ldots, m_s)$  along with the signature  $\sigma$ , it returns 1 only if  $\sigma$  is a valid aggregate signature on  $(m_1, \ldots, m_s)$  under  $(PK_1, \ldots, PK_s)$ .

The sequential aggregate signature scheme is correct, if for all security parameter  $\lambda$ , all  $PP \leftarrow \mathsf{AS.Setup}(1^\lambda)$ , all  $(PK_j, SK_j) \leftarrow \mathsf{AS.KeyGen}(PP)$  for all  $j \in [1, s]$ , all messages  $(m_1, \ldots, m_{s-1}) \in \mathcal{M}$ , all aggregated-so-far signature  $\sigma$  on the messages  $(m_1, \ldots, m_{s-1})$  under  $(PK_1, \ldots, PK_{s-1})$  and  $\sigma' \leftarrow \mathsf{AS.Sign}(SK_s, (m_1, \ldots, m_{s-1}), \sigma, (PK_1, \ldots, PK_{s-1}), m)$ , it holds that  $\mathsf{AS.Ver}((PK_1, \ldots, PK_s, ), (m_1, \ldots, m_s), \sigma') = 1$ .

We consider the security of sequential aggregate signature scheme in the certified public key setting [23]. Informally, given a public key and polynomial many aggregate signing oracle access along with polynomial many join oracle access, it is hard for an adversary to produce an aggregate signature forgery on a new message, which is not queried to the aggregate signing oracle. While making a join oracle query, adversary requests a certification of a public key by sending public and secret key pair to the challenger. The challenger returns a certification of the requested public key, if the given key pair is valid. Formally, security is defined using the following experiment between the challenge  $\mathcal C$  and an adversary  $\mathcal A$ .

**Setup:**  $\mathcal{C}$  initializes a key list KeyList as empty. Next, it runs the AS.Setup to get PP and the AS.KeyGen to get  $(PK^*, SK^*)$ . Then  $\mathcal{C}$  sends  $PK^*$  to  $\mathcal{A}$ .

**Join Query:**  $\mathcal{A}$  adaptively requests to authenticate the public key  $PK_i$  by sending  $(PK_i, SK_i)$  to  $\mathcal{C}$ , for  $i \in [1, q_J]$ . If the key pair is valid, then  $\mathcal{C}$  authenticates the public key  $PK_i$  and adds to KeyList.

Signing Query:  $\mathcal{A}$  adaptively requests a sequential aggregate signature under the challenge public key  $PK^*$  on the message  $m_i$ , for  $i \in [1, q]$ . In addition, it supplies an aggregated-so-far signature  $\sigma_i$  on the messages  $(m_{i,1}, \ldots, m_{i,s_i})$  under the public keys  $(PK_{i,1}, \ldots, PK_{i,s_i})$ .  $\mathcal{C}$  checks (i)  $\sigma_i$  verifies, (ii)  $PK_{i,j}$  belongs to KeyList, for all  $j \in [1, s_i]$  and (iii)  $PK^* \neq PK_{i,j}$ , for all  $j \in [1, s_i]$ . Once all the above conditions satisfy, then  $\mathcal{C}$  answers by computing  $\sigma_i' = \mathsf{AS}.\mathsf{Sign}(SK^*, (m_{i,1}, \ldots, m_{i,s_i}), \sigma_i, (PK_{i,1}, \ldots, PK_{i,s_i}), m_i)$ .

**Output:**  $\mathcal{A}$  outputs an aggregate signature  $\sigma^*$  on the messages  $(m_1^*, \ldots, m_s^*)$  under the public keys  $(PK_1, \ldots, PK_s)$  and wins the game if the following conditions are all satisfied:

- 1. AS.Ver $((PK_1, ..., PK_s), (m_1^*, ..., m_s^*), \sigma^*)=1$ ,
- 2. For all  $PK_j \neq PK^*$ ,  $PK_j \in \text{KeyList}$ ,
- 3. For some  $j^* \in [1, s]$ ,  $PK^* = PK_{j^*}$  and  $m_{j^*}^* \neq m_i$ , for all  $i \in [1, q]$ .

The advantage of  $\mathcal{A}$  (denoted as  $Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{AS.UF}$ ) is defined to be the probability that  $\mathcal{A}$  wins in the above game. A sequential aggregate signature scheme is said to be  $(t, q, q_J, \epsilon)$ -secure against existential unforgeability under chosen message attack  $((t, q, q_J, \epsilon)$ -EUF-CMA secure), if for any t-time adversary  $\mathcal{A}$  that makes at most q many aggregate signing oracle queries and at most  $q_J$  many join oracle queries,  $Adv_{\mathcal{A}}^{AS.UF} \leq \epsilon$ , where t, q and  $q_J$  are the polynomial functions of  $\lambda$  and  $\epsilon$  is a negligible function in  $\lambda$ .